  * Skip to main content
  * Skip to secondary menu

## Site menu

![Government of Canada](/build/theme-gcwu-fegc/images/sig-eng.gif)

  * [Canada.ca](http://www.canada.ca/en/index.html)
  * [Services](http://www.canada.ca/en/services/index.html)
  * [Departments](http://www.canada.ca/en/gov/dept/index.html)
  * [Français](/scripts/changelanguage.asp)

![Symbol of the Government of Canada](/build/theme-gcwu-fegc/images/wmms.gif)

[Justice Laws Website](/eng)

## Search

Search website

## Site menu

  * ### Family Law

    * [Child Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/child-enfant/index.html)
    * [Divorce and Separation](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/divorce/index.html)
    * [Enforcing Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/enforce-execution/index.html)
    * [Family Justice Services](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/fjs-sjf/index.html)
    * [Custody and Parenting](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/parent/index.html)
    * [Spousal Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/spousal-epoux/index.html)
    * [Publications](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/pub.html)
    * [Provincial and Territorial Contacts](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/pt-tp/index.html)
    * [Contact Us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/contact/index.html)

[Family Law - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/index.html)

  * ### Criminal Justice

    * [Youth Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/yj-jj/index.html)
    * [Victims](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/victims-victimes/index.html)
    * [Family Violence](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/fv-vf/index.html)
    * [Criminal Conviction Review](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ccr-rc/index.html)
    * [Human Trafficking](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/tp/index.html)
    * [War Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/wc-cdg/index.html)
    * [National Security](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ns-sn/index.html)
    * [Extradition and Mutual Legal Assistance](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/emla-eej/index.html)

[Criminal Justice - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/index.html)

  * ### Funding

    * [Aboriginal Communities](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/acf-fca/index.html)
    * [Criminal Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/cj-jp/index.html)
    * [Family Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/famil/index.html)
    * [Justice System and Policy](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/jsp-sjp/index.html)
    * [Funding for Other Levels of Government](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/gov-gouv/index.html)
    * [Apply for Funding](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/form.html)

[Funding - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/index.html)

  * ### Canada's System of Justice

    * [About Canada's System of Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/just/)
    * [Bijuralism and Harmonization](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/harmonization/index.html)
    * [Canada's Court System](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/ccs-ajc/)
    * [Justice in Official Languages](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/franc/index.html)
    * [Legal Dualism and Bilingual Bisystemism](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/dualism-dualisme/index.html)

[Canada's System of Justice - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/)

  * ### Laws

    * [Constitutional Documents](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/Const/Const_index.html)
    * [Acts](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/)
    * [Regulations](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/regulations/)
    * [Search for an Act or Regulation ](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/Search/Search.aspx)

[Laws - More](/eng/)

## Breadcrumb trail

  1. [Home](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng)
  2. [Laws Website Home](/eng)
  3. [Consolidated Acts](/eng/acts/)
  4. [R.S.C., 1985, c. V-3 -  Table of Contents](../index.html)
  5. [ Previous versions](../PITIndex.html)
  6. R.S.C., 1985, c. V-3

[This Web page has been archived on the Web.](/eng/ArchiveNote)

Version of document from 2002-12-31 to 2005-10-04:

# Vocational Rehabilitation of Disabled Persons Act

R.S.C., 1985, c. V-3

An Act respecting the vocational rehabilitation of disabled persons and the
coordination of rehabilitation services

# SHORT TITLE

###### Marginal note:Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Vocational Rehabilitation of Disabled Persons Act](/eng/acts/V-3).

  * R.S., c. V-7, s. 1.

# INTERPRETATION

###### Marginal note:Definitions

**2.** In this Act,

“disabled person”

« personne handicapée »

    

“disabled person” means a person who because of physical or mental impairment
is incapable of pursuing regularly any substantially gainful occupation;

“Minister”

« ministre »

    

“Minister” means the Minister of Human Resources Development;

“vocational rehabilitation”

« réadaptation professionnelle »

    

“vocational rehabilitation” means any process of restoration, training and
employment placement, including services related thereto, the object of which
is to enable a person to become capable of pursuing regularly a substantially
gainful occupation.

  * R.S., 1985, c. V-3, s. 2;
  * 1996, c. 11, s. 95.

# AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED

###### Marginal note:Agreement authorized

  * **3.** (1) The Minister may, with the approval of the Governor in Council, enter into an agreement with any province, for a period not exceeding six years, to provide for the payment by Canada to the province of contributions in respect of the costs incurred by the province in undertaking in the province a comprehensive program for the vocational rehabilitation of disabled persons.

  * ###### Marginal note:Contributions payable

(2) The contributions payable by Canada to a province under an agreement made
pursuant to this section shall be fifty per cent of the costs incurred by the
province in providing the program referred to in subsection (1).

  * ###### Marginal note:Definition of "costs"

(3) In this section, “costs” incurred by a province means the costs incurred
by the province determined as prescribed in the agreement made under this
section between the Minister and the province, but does not include any
amounts expended by the province in respect of

    * (_a_) any disabled person eligible for vocational rehabilitation under the Veterans Rehabilitation Act, chapter V-5 of the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1970; or

    * (_b_) any disabled person whose disability is the result of an injury in respect of which benefits are payable to him under any workman’s compensation law.

  * ###### Marginal note:Definition of "comprehensive program for the vocational rehabilitation of disabled persons"

(4) In this section, the expression “comprehensive program for the vocational
rehabilitation of disabled persons”, in respect of a province, means a
vocational rehabilitation program for disabled persons as defined in the
agreement made under this section between the Minister and the province, and,
without restricting the generality of the foregoing, includes such of the
following services and processes of restoration, training and employment
placement as are specified in the agreement, namely,

    * (_a_) assessment and counselling services for disabled persons;

    * (_b_) services and processes of restoration, training and employment placement designed to enable a disabled person to dispense with the necessity for institutional care or the necessity for the regular home service of an attendant;

    * (_c_) providing for utilizing the services of voluntary organizations that are carrying on activities in the province in the field of vocational rehabilitation of disabled persons;

    * (_d_) the training of persons as counsellors or administrators to carry out programs for the vocational rehabilitation of disabled persons;

    * (_e_) the coordination of all activities in the province relating to vocational rehabilitation of disabled persons; and

    * (_f_) such other services and processes of restoration, training and employment placement in respect of disabled persons as are specified in the agreement.

  * ###### Marginal note:How services made available

(5) An agreement made under this section between the Minister and a province
shall set out how and by what manner the various services and processes of
restoration, training and employment placement in respect of disabled persons
that constitute the provincial program for the vocational rehabilitation of
disabled persons as defined in the agreement will be made available to
disabled persons in the province.

  * R.S., c. V-7, s. 3.

###### Marginal note:Amendments

**4.** Any agreement made under this Act may be amended or terminated by the mutual consent of the parties thereto with the approval of the Governor in Council.

  * R.S., c. V-7, s. 4.

###### Marginal note:Maximum contributions

**4.1** Notwithstanding anything in this Act or any agreement made under this Act, the contributions payable to a province pursuant to an agreement made under this Act in respect of any fiscal year ending after March 31, 1995 shall not exceed the contributions to that province in respect of the fiscal year ending on March 31, 1995.

  * 1995, c. 17, s. 67.

# FEDERAL PROGRAMS AND RESEARCH

###### Marginal note:Coordination of federal activities

**5.** The Minister may undertake to coordinate federal activities in the field of vocational rehabilitation of disabled persons in cooperation with the ministers or heads of any other departments or agencies of the Government of Canada carrying on activities in that field.

  * R.S., c. V-7, s. 5.

###### Marginal note:Research program

  * **6.** (1) The Minister may undertake research in respect of vocational rehabilitation for disabled persons and may, where he deems it appropriate, undertake that research in cooperation with any province.

  * ###### Marginal note:Publication of research

(2) The Minister may collect, compile, analyze, abstract and publish
information relating to any research undertaken by him pursuant to this
section.

  * R.S., c. V-7, s. 6.

# REGULATIONS

###### Marginal note:Regulations

**7.** The Governor in Council may, on the recommendation of the Minister, make regulations for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act.

  * R.S., c. V-7, s. 7;
  * 1976-77, c. 54, s. 74.

# REPORT TO PARLIAMENT

###### Marginal note:Report to Parliament

**8.** The Minister shall, within three months after the termination of each fiscal year, prepare an annual report on the work done, moneys expended and obligations contracted under this Act and cause the report to be laid before Parliament forthwith on the completion thereof or, if Parliament is not then sitting, on any of the first fifteen days next thereafter that either House of Parliament is sitting.

  * R.S., c. V-7, s. 8.

  * Vocational Rehabilitation of Disabled Persons Act
    * 1 - SHORT TITLE
    * 2 - INTERPRETATION
    * 3 - AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED
    * 5 - FEDERAL PROGRAMS AND RESEARCH
    * 7 - REGULATIONS
    * 8 - REPORT TO PARLIAMENT

Date modified:

    2015-06-04

## Secondary menu

### Laws

  * [Constitutional Documents](/eng/Const/Const_index.html)
  * [Consolidated Acts](/eng/acts/)
  * [Consolidated Regulations](/eng/regulations/)
  * [Annual Statutes](/eng/AnnualStatutes/index.html)
  * [Statutes Repeal Act: Reports and Repeals](/eng/Reports/)
  * [Miscellaneous Statute Law Amendment Program](/eng/MSLA/)

### Search

  * [Basic Search](/Search/Search.aspx)
  * [Advanced Search](/Search/Advanced.aspx)

### Resources

  * [Table of Public Statutes and Responsible Ministers](/eng/TablePublicStatutes/index.html)
  * [Table of Private Acts](/eng/TablePrivateActs/index.html)
  * [Consolidated Index of Statutory Instruments](/eng/IndexStatutoryInstruments)
  * [Related Resources](/eng/RelatedResources)

### Help

  * [Accessibility](/eng/Accessibility)
  * [FAQ](/eng/FAQ)
  * [General](/eng/GeneralHelp)
  * [Search Help](/eng/SearchHelp)
  * [PDF Help](/eng/PDFHelp)
  * [How to Create Stable Links](/eng/LinkingGuide)
  * [Printing](/eng/Printing)
  * [Glossary](/eng/Glossary)
  * [Important Note](/eng/ImportantNote)

## Footer

### Site footer

  * [Terms and conditions](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/terms-avis/index.html)
  * [Transparency](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/trans/index.html)

#### [Contact us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/index.html)

  * [Policy on Legal Assistance](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm4.html)
  * [Service on the Crown ](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm3.html)
  * [Guide to Canadian Legal Information](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm2.html)
  * [Help](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/help-aide.html)
  * [Helpful Links](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/link-lien.html)

#### [About us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/index.html)

  * [The Minister and Attorney General](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/mag-mpg.html)
  * [Organization](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/org.html)
  * [Acts and Regulations](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/trans/ar-lr/index.html)
  * [Careers and Articling ](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/recru/index.html)
  * [Reports and Publications](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/rp-pr/index.html)
  * [Sustainable Development](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/sd-dd/index.html)

#### [News](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/index.html)

  * [News Releases](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=1&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=26&crtr.mnthStrtVl=2&crtr.yrStrtVl=2008&crtr.dyndVl=31&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Backgrounders](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=930&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=26&crtr.mnthStrtVl=2&crtr.yrStrtVl=2008&crtr.dyndVl=27&crtr.mnthndVl=3&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Judicial Appointments](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/ja-nj.asp?tid=4)
  * [Speeches](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=970&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=21&crtr.mnthStrtVl=1&crtr.yrStrtVl=2002&crtr.dyndVl=21&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Media Notices](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=3&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=9&crtr.mnthStrtVl=1&crtr.yrStrtVl=2012&crtr.dyndVl=9&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Photo Gallery](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/photo/index.html)

#### [Stay connected](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/connect-branches.html)

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [RSS](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/rss.html)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/user/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [Public Consultations](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cons/index.html)

### Government of Canada footer

  * [Health](http://healthycanadians.gc.ca/index-eng.php)
  * [Travel](http://www.travel.gc.ca/index-eng.asp)
  * [Service Canada](http://www.servicecanada.gc.ca/eng/home.shtml)
  * [Jobs](http://www.jobbank.gc.ca/intro-eng.aspx)
  * [Economy](http://actionplan.gc.ca/eng/index.asp)
  * [Canada.ca](http://www.canada.ca/en/index.html)

![DCSIMG](//j1.justice.gc.ca/dcs7902nd5ihvq0jmbpwr0wnu_8j4x/njs.gif?dcsuri=/no
javascript&WT.js=No&WT.tv=9.4.0&dcssip=www.laws-lois.justice.gc.ca)

  *[R.S.C.]: Revised Statutes of Canada

