# Yukon Act

S.C. 2002, c. 7

Assented to 2002-03-27

An Act to replace the Yukon Act in order to modernize it and to implement
certain provisions of the Yukon Northern Affairs Program Devolution Transfer
Agreement, and to repeal and make amendments to other Acts

###### Preamble

Whereas Yukon is a territory that has a system of responsible government that
is similar in principle to that of Canada;

And Whereas the enactment of legislation is required to implement certain
provisions of the Yukon Northern Affairs Program Devolution Transfer
Agreement, negotiated by representatives of certain first nations, the
Government of Canada and the Yukon Government;

NOW, THEREFORE, Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate
and House of Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

## SHORT TITLE

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Yukon Act](/eng/acts/Y-2.01).

## INTERPRETATION

###### Definitions

**2.** The definitions in this section apply in this Act.

“adjoining area”

« zone adjacente »

    

“adjoining area” means the area outside Yukon and landward of the northern
limit described in Schedule 2.

“federal agent corporation”

« société mandataire fédérale »

    

“federal agent corporation” has the meaning assigned to the expression “agent
corporation” by subsection 83(1) of the [Financial Administration
Act](/eng/acts/F-11).

“federal conservation area”

« aire de conservation fédérale »

    

“federal conservation area” means an area that is

  * (_a_) a national park;

  * (_b_) public real property under the administration of the Minister of the Environment that is subject to measures imposed under the [Canada Wildlife Act](/eng/acts/W-9) for the conservation of wildlife; or

  * (_c_) a protection area for migratory birds prescribed under the [Migratory Birds Convention Act, 1994](/eng/acts/M-7.01).

“former Act”

« ancienne loi »

    

“former Act” means the [Yukon Act](/eng/acts/Y-2.01), chapter Y-2 of the
Revised Statutes of Canada, 1985.

“gas”

« gaz »

    

“gas” means natural gas and all substances produced in association with
natural gas, but does not include oil or coal-bed methane.

“Minister”

« ministre »

    

“Minister” means the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development.

“national park”

« parc national »

    

“national park” means a park and includes a park reserve as those terms are
defined in subsection 2(1) of the [Canada National Parks
Act](/eng/acts/N-14.01).

“oil”

« pétrole »

    

“oil” means crude petroleum, regardless of gravity, produced at a well-head in
liquid form and any other hydrocarbons, except gas and coal-bed methane. It
includes hydrocarbons that may be extracted or recovered from surface or
subsurface deposits of oil sand, bitumen, bituminous sand or oil shale or from
other types of deposits, but does not include coal.

“public real property”

« biens réels domaniaux »

    

“public real property” means

  * (_a_) land in Yukon that belongs to Her Majesty in right of Canada, including mines and minerals, and buildings, structures, improvements and other fixtures on, above or below the surface of the land; and

  * (_b_) any estate, right, title or interest, including an easement, a servitude and a lease, held by Her Majesty in right of Canada in or to land in Yukon.

“waters”

« eaux »

    

“waters” means any inland water, whether in a liquid or frozen state, on or
below the surface of land.

“Yukon”

« Yukon »

    

“Yukon” means the territory consisting of the area described in Schedule 1.

###### Aboriginal rights

**3.** For greater certainty, nothing in this Act shall be construed so as to abrogate or derogate from the protection provided for existing aboriginal or treaty rights of the aboriginal peoples of Canada by the recognition and affirmation of those rights in section 35 of the [Constitution Act, 1982](/eng/Const/).

## GOVERNMENT

## Executive Power

###### Commissioner

**4.** (1) A Commissioner of Yukon shall be appointed by order of the Governor in Council.

###### Publication of order

###### Action of Commissioner

###### Administrator

**5.** (1) The Governor in Council may appoint an Administrator to act as Commissioner during the Commissioner’s absence or illness or other inability or when that office is vacant.

###### Absence or inability

###### Oaths

**6.** Before assuming office, the Commissioner and the Administrator shall take and subscribe the oath of office and the oath of allegiance prescribed by the Governor in Council.

###### Salaries

**7.** The salary of the Commissioner and of the Administrator shall be fixed by the Governor in Council and paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund of Canada.

###### Executive Council

**8.** The Executive Council of Yukon established under the former Act is hereby continued. Its members shall be appointed by the Commissioner.

###### Seat of government

**9.** The seat of the Yukon Government is at Whitehorse but the Legislature may designate another place in Yukon as the seat of government.

## Legislative Power

### Legislative Assembly

###### Legislative Assembly of Yukon

**10.** The Council established by the former Act is hereby continued as the Legislative Assembly of Yukon. Each member of the Legislative Assembly is elected to represent an electoral district in Yukon.

###### Duration of Legislative Assembly

**11.** (1) No Legislative Assembly shall continue for longer than five years after the date of the return of the writs for a general election, but the Commissioner may dissolve it before then.

###### Writs

###### Oaths of office

**12.** Before assuming office, each member of the Legislative Assembly shall take and subscribe before the Commissioner the oath of office prescribed by the Legislature of Yukon and the oath of allegiance set out in the Fifth Schedule to the [Constitution Act, 1867](/eng/Const/).

###### Yearly session

**13.** The Legislative Assembly shall sit at least once every 12 months.

###### Speaker

**14.** (1) The Legislative Assembly shall elect one member to be Speaker, who shall preside over the Legislative Assembly when it is sitting.

###### Vote

###### Quorum

**15.** A majority of the members of the Legislative Assembly, including the Speaker, constitutes a quorum.

###### Rules of procedure

**16.** The Legislative Assembly may make rules for its operations and procedures, except in relation to the classes of subjects with respect to which the Legislature may make laws under paragraph 18(1)(_b_).

### Legislature

###### Legislature of Yukon

**17.** The institution referred to in the former Act as the Commissioner in Council and which consisted of the Commissioner and the Council of the Yukon Territory is hereby continued as the Legislature of Yukon, consisting of the Commissioner and the Legislative Assembly.

### Legislative Powers

###### Legislative powers

**18.** (1) The Legislature may make laws in relation to the following classes of subjects in respect of Yukon:

(_a_) the election of members of the Legislative Assembly, including the name
and number of electoral districts and the qualifications of electors and of
candidates for election;

(_b_) the disqualification of persons from sitting or voting as members of the
Legislative Assembly and the privileges, indemnity and expenses of those
members;

(_c_) the Executive Council;

(_d_) the establishment and tenure of public offices in Yukon and the
appointment, conditions of employment and payment of office-holders;

(_e_) municipal and local institutions;

(_f_) direct taxation and licensing in order to raise revenue for territorial,
municipal or local purposes;

(_g_) the levying of a tax on furs or any portions of fur-bearing animals to
be shipped or taken from Yukon to any place outside Yukon;

(_h_) the incorporation of companies with territorial objects, other than
railway, steamship, air transport, canal, telegraph or telephone companies,
but including street railway companies;

(_i_) the solemnization of marriage;

(_j_) property and civil rights;

(_k_) the administration of justice, including the constitution, maintenance
and organization of territorial courts, both of civil and of criminal
jurisdiction, and including procedure in civil matters in those courts;

(_l_) the establishment, maintenance and management of prisons, jails or lock-
ups;

(_m_) the conservation of wildlife and its habitat, other than in a federal
conservation area;

(_n_) waters, other than waters in a federal conservation area, including the
deposit of waste in those waters, the definition of what constitutes waste and
the disposition of any right in respect of those waters under subsection
48(2);

(_o_) education, but any law respecting education must provide that

(i) a majority of the ratepayers of any part of Yukon may establish any school
in that part that they think fit and make the necessary assessment and
collection of rates for it, and

(ii) the minority of the ratepayers in that part of Yukon, whether Protestant
or Roman Catholic, may establish separate schools in that part and, if they do
so, are liable only to assessments of the rates that they impose on themselves
in respect of those schools;

(_p_) immigration;

(_q_) public real property — including the timber and wood on that property —
under the administration and control of the Commissioner, including the
disposition of that property under subsection 45(1);

(_r_) intoxicants, including the definition of what constitutes an intoxicant;

(_s_) hospitals and charities;

(_t_) agriculture;

(_u_) the entering into of intergovernmental agreements by the Commissioner or
any other official of the Yukon Government;

(_v_) the expenditure of money for territorial purposes;

(_w_) the adoption and use of an official seal;

(_x_) generally, all matters of a merely local or private nature;

(_y_) the imposition of fines, penalties, imprisonment or other punishments in
respect of the contravention of the provisions of a law of the Legislature;
and

(_z_) any other matter that may be designated by order of the Governor in
Council.

###### Oil and gas in adjoining area

###### Importation of intoxicants

###### Laws relating to natural resources

**19.** (1) The Legislature may make laws in relation to

(_a_) the exploration for non-renewable natural resources in Yukon and oil and
gas in the adjoining area;

(_b_) the development, conservation and management of non-renewable natural
resources in Yukon, oil and gas in the adjoining area and forestry resources
in Yukon, including laws in relation to the rate of primary production from
those resources;

(_c_) oil and gas pipelines located entirely within Yukon;

(_d_) the development, conservation and management of sites and facilities in
Yukon for the generation and production of electrical energy;

(_e_) the export, from Yukon to another part of Canada, of the primary
production from non-renewable natural resources and forestry resources in
Yukon, and of electrical energy generated or produced from facilities in
Yukon; and

(_f_) the export, from the adjoining area to another part of Canada, of the
primary production from oil and gas in that area.

###### Export of natural resources

###### Taxation of natural resources

###### No differentiation based on place of export

Definition of “primary production”

  *   * (_a_) production from a non-renewable natural resource if

(i) the product is in a form in which the resource exists on its recovery or
severance from its natural state, or

(ii) the product is a product that results from processing or refining the
resource, and is not a manufactured product or a product that results from
refining crude oil, upgraded heavy crude oil, gases or liquids derived from
coal, or a synthetic equivalent of crude oil; and

(_b_) production from a forestry resource if the product consists of sawlogs,
poles, lumber, wood chips, sawdust or any other primary wood product, or wood
pulp, and is not a product manufactured from wood.

###### Existing powers or rights

###### Restrictions on powers

**20.** (1) Nothing in subsections 18(1) and (2) and section 19 shall be construed as giving the Legislature greater powers than are given to legislatures of the provinces under sections 92, 92A and 95 of the [Constitution Act, 1867](/eng/Const/).

###### Water-power

###### Agreement implementation Acts

**21.** Despite subsection 20(1), the Legislature may, in exercising its powers under sections 18 and 19 for the purpose of implementing aboriginal land claim agreements or aboriginal self-government agreements, make laws that are in relation to the matters coming within class 24 of section 91 of the [Constitution Act, 1867](/eng/Const/).

###### Laws re conservation of wildlife

**22.** (1) Despite subsection 20(1), any law of the Legislature in relation to the conservation of wildlife, unless the contrary intention appears in it, applies to and in respect of Indians and Inuit.

###### Hunting for food

###### Cessation of application

###### Borrowing and lending

**23.** (1) The Legislature may make laws

(_a_) for the borrowing of money by the Commissioner on behalf of Yukon for
territorial, municipal or local purposes;

(_b_) for the lending of money by the Commissioner to any person in Yukon; and

(_c_) for the investing by the Commissioner of surplus money standing to the
credit of the Yukon Consolidated Revenue Fund.

###### Restriction

###### Charge on Yukon C.R.F.

###### Withholding of assent

**24.** (1) The Governor in Council may, in writing, direct the Commissioner to withhold his or her assent to a bill that has been introduced in the Legislative Assembly.

###### Consent of Governor in Council

###### Transmittal of laws

**25.** (1) A copy of every law made by the Legislature shall be transmitted by the Clerk of the Legislative Assembly to the Governor in Council within 30 days after it is made.

###### Disallowance

###### Conflicting laws

**26.** In the event of a conflict between a law of the Legislature and a federal enactment, the federal enactment prevails to the extent of the conflict.

###### Official languages

**27.** (1) The ordinance entitled the Languages Act made on May 18, 1988 under the former Act and any successor to it may not be repealed, amended or otherwise rendered inoperable by the Legislature without the concurrence of Parliament by way of an amendment to this Act.

###### Additional rights and services

## Yukon Consolidated Revenue Fund

###### Establishment of fund

**28.** (1) All public moneys and revenue over which the Legislature has the power of appropriation shall form a fund to be known as the Yukon Consolidated Revenue Fund.

###### Establishment of bank accounts

###### Recommendation of Commissioner

**29.** It is not lawful for the Legislative Assembly to adopt or pass any vote, resolution, address or bill for the appropriation of any part of the public revenue, or of any tax, for any purpose that has not been first recommended to the Legislative Assembly by message of the Commissioner, in the session in which the vote, resolution, address or bill is proposed.

###### Appropriation of moneys granted by Parliament

**30.** When a sum of money is granted to Her Majesty in right of Canada by Parliament to defray expenses for a specified public service in Yukon, the power of appropriation by the Legislature over that sum is subject to the specified purpose for which it is granted.

## Yukon Public Accounts

###### Fiscal year

**31.** The Yukon Government’s fiscal year is the period beginning on April 1 in one year and ending on March 31 in the next year.

###### Submission of Yukon Public Accounts to Legislative Assembly

**32.** The Commissioner, with the consent of the Executive Council, shall, on or before such day of the fiscal year as the Legislative Assembly may fix, lay before the Legislative Assembly a report called the Yukon Public Accounts for the preceding fiscal year and the Legislative Assembly shall consider the report.

###### Form and contents

**33.** The Yukon Public Accounts shall be prepared in any form that the Commissioner, with the consent of the Executive Council, directs. They shall be prepared in accordance with accounting principles recommended for the public sector by the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants or its successor and shall include

(_a_) consolidated financial statements for the Yukon Government that present

(i) the financial position as at the end of the fiscal year,

(ii) the accumulated surplus or deficit as at the end of the fiscal year,

(iii) the results of its operations for the fiscal year, and

(iv) the changes in the financial position for the fiscal year;

(_b_) the opinion of the Auditor General of Canada referred to in subsection
34(1); and

(_c_) any other information or statements that are required in support of the
consolidated financial statements by or under any law of the Legislature.

###### Annual audit

**34.** (1) The Auditor General of Canada shall audit the accounts, including those related to the Yukon Consolidated Revenue Fund, and financial transactions of the Yukon Government in each fiscal year in accordance with auditing standards recommended by the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants or its successor and shall express his or her opinion as to whether

(_a_) the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects and in accordance with accounting principles recommended for the
public sector by that Institute or its successor, the financial position of
the Yukon Government as at the end of the fiscal year and the results of its
operations in, and changes in its financial position for, the fiscal year; and

(_b_) the transactions of the Yukon Government that have come to the notice of
the Auditor General in the course of the audit are within the powers of the
Yukon Government under this or any other Act.

###### Report

###### Supplementary report

**35.** The Auditor General of Canada may, at any time, inquire into and submit a supplementary report to the Legislative Assembly about any matter relating to the activities of the Yukon Government, including whether

(_a_) accounts have not been faithfully and properly maintained or public
money has not been fully accounted for or paid, where so required by law, into
the Yukon Consolidated Revenue Fund;

(_b_) essential records have not been maintained or the rules and procedures
applied have been insufficient to safeguard and control public property, to
secure an effective check on the assessment, collection and proper allocation
of the revenue and to ensure that expenditures have been made only as
authorized;

(_c_) money has been expended for purposes other than those for which it was
appropriated by the Legislature or has been expended without due regard to
economy or efficiency; or

(_d_) satisfactory procedures have not been established to measure and report
the effectiveness of programs, where such procedures could appropriately and
reasonably be implemented.

###### Inquiry and report

**36.** At the request of the Commissioner, made with the consent of the Executive Council, the Auditor General of Canada may, if in his or her opinion it does not interfere with the Auditor General’s primary responsibilities, inquire into and report to the Legislative Assembly on

(_a_) any matter relating to the financial affairs of the Yukon Government or
to public property in Yukon; or

(_b_) any person or organization that has received or is seeking financial aid
from the Yukon Government.

###### Powers of Auditor General

**37.** (1) For the purposes of carrying out the Auditor General of Canada’s functions under this Act, the Auditor General has all the powers that he or she has under the [Auditor General Act](/eng/acts/A-17).

###### Access to information

## ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE

## Judicature

###### Appointment of judges

**38.** The Governor in Council shall appoint the judges of any superior, district or county courts that are now or may be constituted in Yukon.

###### Tenure of office of judges

**39.** The judges of the superior, district and county courts in Yukon shall hold office during good behaviour but are removable by the Governor General on address of the Senate and House of Commons and shall cease to hold office on attaining the age of 75 years.

## Supreme Court of Yukon

###### Judges of the Supreme Court of Yukon

**40.** A judge, other than a deputy judge, of the Supreme Court of the Northwest Territories or of the Nunavut Court of Justice is, by reason of holding that office, a judge of the Supreme Court of Yukon.

###### Deputy judges

**41.** (1) The Governor in Council may appoint any person who is or has been a judge of a superior, district or county court of a province or a barrister or advocate of at least 10 years standing at the bar of a province to be a deputy judge of the Supreme Court of Yukon and fix his or her remuneration and allowances.

###### Duration of appointment

###### Tenure of office

###### Powers

###### Jurisdiction to try civil cases

**42.** The Supreme Court of Yukon has and may exercise and perform, in the Northwest Territories or Nunavut, all the powers, duties and functions of the Court with respect to a civil case, other than a civil case where the Court sits with a jury.

###### Jurisdiction to try criminal cases

**43.** (1) A judge of the Supreme Court of Yukon has and may exercise and perform, anywhere in Canada, all the powers, duties and functions of the Court with respect to any criminal offence committed or charged to have been committed in Yukon.

###### Application of laws

###### Enforcement of decisions

## Court of Appeal of Yukon

###### Sittings

**44.** The Court of Appeal of Yukon may sit in Yukon and, unless the laws of the Legislature provide otherwise, in any other place in Canada.

## REAL PROPERTY, WATER, OIL AND GAS

## Administration and Control

###### Commissioner

**45.** (1) Subject to this Act and section 37 of the [Northern Pipeline Act](/eng/acts/N-26), the Commissioner has the administration and control of public real property and of oil and gas in the adjoining area and may, with the consent of the Executive Council, use, sell or otherwise dispose of that property, or any products of that property, that oil or gas, or any interest in that oil or gas, and retain the proceeds of the disposition.

###### Exception

###### Public real property acquired on behalf of a federal minister

###### Relinquishment

**46.** (1) The Commissioner may, with the consent of the Executive Council and with the approval of the Governor in Council, relinquish the administration and control of public real property or any interest in oil and gas in the adjoining area, either in perpetuity or for any lesser term.

###### Administration of relinquished interest

###### Transfer to Commissioner

**47.** The Governor in Council may, on acceptance by the Commissioner given with the consent of the Executive Council, transfer to the Commissioner, either in perpetuity or for any lesser term, the administration and control of public real property or any interest in oil and gas in the adjoining area.

###### Right to waters vested in Her Majesty

**48.** (1) The rights in respect of all waters in Yukon belong to Her Majesty in right of Canada.

###### Commissioner

###### Limitations

###### [Dominion Water Power Act](/eng/acts/W-4)

## Restrictions

###### Taking of administration by Governor in Council

**49.** (1) The Governor in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister, may take from the Commissioner the administration and control of public real property and transfer the administration of the property to a federal minister or a federal agent corporation if the Governor in Council considers it necessary to do so for

(_a_) the national interest, including

(i) national defence or security,

(ii) the establishment, or changes to the boundaries, of a national park,
historic site or other area protected under an Act of Parliament, and

(iii) the creation of the infrastructure required for initiatives in respect
of transportation or energy;

(_b_) the welfare of Indians and Inuit; or

(_c_) the settlement of an aboriginal land claim or the implementation of an
aboriginal land claim agreement.

###### Taking of administration — adjoining area

###### Consultation

###### Prohibition order — public real property in Yukon

**50.** (1) The Governor in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister, may by order prohibit the issuance under this Act of interests in, or the authorization under this Act of the conduct of activities on, public real property specified in the order if the Governor in Council considers that the prohibition is required

(_a_) before the administration and control of the property is taken under
paragraph 49(1)(_a_) or (_b_); or

(_b_) for the settlement of an aboriginal land claim or the implementation of
an aboriginal land claim agreement.

###### Prohibition order — lands in adjoining area

(_a_) any use to which the Government of Canada intends the lands to be put,
including, in particular, their use as a national park or an airport or their
use for purposes of national defence or navigation;

(_b_) the exercise, in relation to those lands, of any powers of the
Government of Canada, including, in particular, powers respecting national
security or the protection of the environment; or

(_c_) the settlement of an aboriginal land claim or the implementation of an
aboriginal land claim agreement.

###### Prohibition order — waters in Yukon

**51.** The Governor in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister, may by order prohibit any use of waters in Yukon specified in the order, or the deposit of waste directly or indirectly into those waters, if the Governor in Council considers

(_a_) that the use, or the deposit of waste, would be incompatible with or
would interfere with a particular undertaking that is in the national
interest; or

(_b_) that the prohibition is required for the settlement of an aboriginal
land claim or the implementation of an aboriginal land claim agreement.

###### Procedure

**52.** (1) The Minister shall, before an order under section 50 is made, notify the member of the Executive Council who is responsible for the public real property or, in the case of the adjoining area, the oil or gas that is the subject of the order and shall, before an order under section 51 is made, notify the member of the Executive Council who is responsible for water resources.

###### Publication

###### Interim prohibition

###### Consideration of representations

###### If proposed order varied

###### Duration of prohibition orders

**53.** A prohibition order made under section 50 or 51 may not be made for a period that exceeds five years.

## EXERCISE OF FEDERAL POWERS

###### Adjoining area

**54.** The Government of Canada, including its agencies, shall exercise any powers in respect of the management of lands in the adjoining area in a manner consistent with the powers of the Yukon Government, including its agencies, in respect of oil and gas in that area to the extent that the objectives of the Government of Canada in so exercising its powers are not compromised.

###### Northern pipeline

**55.** (1) Despite the laws of the Legislature, the minister responsible for the [Northern Pipeline Act](/eng/acts/N-26) may grant, with or without conditions, an application made to a person or entity required by a law of the Legislature to hold a public hearing on the matter if the application is

(_a_) for rights or renewal of rights in respect of waters for the purpose of
constructing the pipeline referred to in that Act; or

(_b_) for permission to expropriate lands or any interest in lands for the
purposes of that pipeline if the application is made by a person who holds or
has applied for the water rights described in paragraph (_a_).

###### Application of subsection (1)

###### Consultation required

###### Effect of exercise of power

## LEGISLATIVE AMENDMENT

###### Consultation re bills

**56.** (1) Before a bill that amends or repeals this Act is introduced in the House of Commons by a federal minister, the Minister shall consult with the Executive Council with respect to the proposed amendment or repeal.

###### Assembly may recommend amendments

## TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

###### Commissioner

**57.** The Commissioner, within the meaning of the former Act, who is in office immediately before the coming into force of section 4 shall continue in office according to the terms of his or her appointment.

###### Duration of Council

**58.** Despite section 11, the members of the Council, within the meaning of the former Act, that are in office immediately before the coming into force of section 10 shall continue in office as members of the Legislative Assembly for the remainder of the period provided under subsection 9(3) of the former Act, but the Commissioner may dissolve the Legislative Assembly before then.

###### Existing rights and interests

**59.** (1) The laws of the Legislature apply with respect to a right or interest granted under an access order, permit, licence or other authorization, lease or agreement for lease or sale that exists immediately before the coming into force of any provision of this Act that repeals or renders inapplicable the provision of an Act of Parliament under which the right or interest arises.

###### Limitation — additional conditions

###### Limitation — cancellation, etc.

(_a_) the circumstances for the cancellation, suspension or limitation of the
right or interest are identical to those that would have applied before the
coming into force of a provision described in subsection (1); or

(_b_) the cancellation, suspension or limitation of the right or interest is
for a failure to comply with a condition in respect of the exercise of the
right or interest and the law applies to all similar rights or interests.

###### Limitation — expropriation

###### Exception — claims

###### Exception — rights and interests under the former Act

###### Reference to Government of Canada

**60.** Any reference to the Government of Canada, or any of its agents, in an access order, permit, licence or other authorization, lease or agreement for lease or sale referred to in subsection 59(1) shall be read as a reference to the Yukon Government.

###### Pending applications

**61.** (1) Every proceeding with respect to a right or interest granted under an access order, permit, licence or other authorization, lease or agreement for lease or sale that is commenced before the coming into force of any provision of this Act that repeals or renders inapplicable the provision of an Act of Parliament under which the right or interest arises shall be taken up and continued under and in conformity with the laws of the Legislature without any further formality.

###### Exception

###### Validity of laws of Legislature

**62.** A law of the Legislature that specifically provides that it applies to matters governed by an Act of Parliament that is repealed by any of sections 281 to 284 or made inapplicable by any of sections 238 to 247 is considered for all purposes to have been validly made if it is made before the coming into force of that section and would have been validly made, if made after that coming into force. However, it has no force and effect before that coming into force.

Definition of “Agreement”

**63.** In sections 64 to 67, “Agreement” means the Yukon Northern Affairs Program Devolution Transfer Agreement made on October 29, 2001.

###### Indemnification by Yukon

**64.** (1) The Yukon Government shall indemnify the Government of Canada, or any of its employees or agents, against all costs, charges or expenses, including an amount paid to settle an action or satisfy a judgement, that are reasonably incurred by the Government of Canada, or any of its employees or agents, in respect of any claim, action or other proceeding brought against the Government of Canada, or any of its employees or agents, arising out of any act or omission of the Yukon Government, or any of its employees or agents, in respect of

(_a_) public real property not under the administration and control of the
Commissioner immediately before the coming into force of this section or water
rights, if the act or omission occurs while the Commissioner has
administration and control of the property or rights;

(_b_) a right or interest granted under an access order, permit, licence or
other authorization, lease or agreement for lease or sale that exists
immediately before the date of coming into force of any provision of this Act
that repeals or renders inapplicable the provision of the Act of Parliament
under which the right or interest arises, if the act or omission occurs after
that date;

(_c_) security that is assigned to the Yukon Government under the Agreement;

(_d_) records provided under the Agreement to the Yukon Government, unless the
act or omission is made pursuant to the Agreement; or

(_e_) remediation work required by the Agreement.

###### Indemnification respecting obligations to employees of Canada

###### Indemnification of first nations

###### Indemnification by Canada

**65.** (1) The Government of Canada shall indemnify the Yukon Government, or any of its employees or agents, against all costs, charges or expenses, including an amount paid to settle an action or satisfy a judgement, that are reasonably incurred by the Yukon Government, or any of its employees or agents, in respect of any claim, action or other proceeding brought against the Yukon Government, or any of its employees or agents, arising out of any act or omission of the Government of Canada, or any of its employees or agents, in respect of

(_a_) public real property not under the administration and control of the
Commissioner immediately before the coming into force of this section, if the
act or omission occurred while the Commissioner did not have the
administration and control of the property;

(_b_) water rights in Yukon, if the act or omission occurred before the
Commissioner had administration and control of the water rights;

(_c_) a right or interest granted under an access order, permit, licence or
other authorization, lease or agreement for lease or sale that exists
immediately before the date of coming into force of any provision of this Act
that repeals or renders inapplicable the provision of the Act of Parliament
under which the right or interest arises, if the act or omission occurs before
that date;

(_d_) security that is required to be assigned to the Yukon Government under
the Agreement;

(_e_) records that are required to be provided to the Yukon Government under
the Agreement; or

(_f_) remediation work required by the Agreement.

###### Indemnification by Canada for exercise of power

###### Indemnification of first nations

###### Limitation on indemnification

**66.** The Government of Canada, the Yukon Government or a first nation is not entitled to be indemnified under section 64 or 65 if it has settled the claim, action or proceeding without the written consent of the government that is required to indemnify it under that section.

###### Information privileged

**67.** (1) The communication pursuant to the Agreement by the Government of Canada to the Yukon Government of information, however recorded, that is subject to solicitor-client privilege does not constitute a waiver of the privilege.

###### Disclosure with consent

## AMENDMENTS TO THIS ACT

**68\. to 76.** [Amendments]

## AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS

**77\. to 271.** [Amendments]

## COORDINATING AMENDMENTS

**272\. to 278.** [Amendments]

## REPEALS

**279\. to 284.** [Repeals]

## COMING INTO FORCE

###### By order

***285.** (1) The provisions of this Act, other than sections 70 to 75 and section 77, subsection 117(2) and sections 167, 168, 210, 211, 221, 227, 233, 272 to 278 and 283, come into force on a day to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

###### Amendments to this Act

###### Repeal of Act

*[Note: Sections 272 to 278 in force on assent March 27, 2002.]

## SCHEDULE 1(Section 2)DESCRIPTION OF YUKON

Yukon shall be bounded as follows: On the south, by the Province of British
Columbia and the State of Alaska; on the west, by the said State of Alaska; on
the north, by that part of the Arctic Ocean called Beaufort Sea; and on the
east, by a line beginning at the intersection of the north boundary of British
Columbia with a line passing through a boundary pipe post set in concrete,
trench and mound, numbered 600, planted by the British Columbia-Yukon-
Northwest Territories Boundary Commission approximately 1 chain westerly of
the left bank of the Liard River, said line having a bearing of 309 degrees
with reference to the meridian through said post; thence northwesterly along
said line to a point on the line of watershed separating the streams flowing
into the Liard River below the La Biche River or into the Mackenzie River from
those flowing into the La Biche River, into the Liard River above the La Biche
River, or into the Yukon River; thence northwesterly along said line of
watershed to the line of watershed of the basin of Peel River; thence
northerly along the line of watershed between the Peel and Mackenzie Rivers to
the sixty-seventh degree of north latitude; thence westerly along the parallel
of the sixty-seventh degree of north latitude to the line of watershed between
the Peel and Yukon Rivers; thence northerly along the said line of watershed
to the trail across the portage in McDougall Pass between Rat and Bell Rivers;
thence due north to the northern limit of the Yukon territory; the said
territory to include the islands within twenty statute miles from the shores
of the Beaufort Sea as far as the aforesaid due north line from McDougall
Pass.

## SCHEDULE 2(Section 2)NORTHERN LIMIT OF ADJOINING AREA

All topographic features referred to below are according to the _Gazetteer of
Canada (Yukon Territory)_, Fifth Edition, Ottawa, 1988, and Canadian
Hydrographic Service Charts 7661 (Demarcation Bay to Phillips Bay, 21st
edition) and 7662 (Mackenzie Bay, 33rd edition), produced at a scale of
1:150,000 by the Department of Fisheries and Oceans at Ottawa.

A line following the ordinary low water mark of the northern coast of the
mainland of the Yukon territory, except

  * (_a_) at any coastal indentation such as a bay, lagoon, arm, cove, basin or other inlet: a straight line across the entrance of the indentation at the ordinary low water mark, provided

    * (i) the line measures 4 kilometres or less, and

    * (ii) the area of the indentation, including any islands or parts of islands lying within the indentation, is greater than that of a semicircle whose diameter is the straight line;

  * (_b_) at Phillips Bay: a straight line from the most easterly point on the ordinary low water mark on the northwesterly extremity of the entrance of the said Bay near Stokes Point to the most northwesterly point on the ordinary low water mark on the northeasterly extremity of the entrance of the said Bay near Kay Point; and

  * (_c_) at Shoalwater Bay: a straight line from the most northeasterly point on the ordinary low water mark on the westerly extremity of the entrance of the said Bay to the most westerly point on the ordinary low water mark on the easterly extremity of the entrance of the said Bay.
  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada

