  * Skip to main content
  * Skip to secondary menu

## Site menu

![Government of Canada](/build/theme-gcwu-fegc/images/sig-eng.gif)

  * [Canada.ca](http://www.canada.ca/en/index.html)
  * [Services](http://www.canada.ca/en/services/index.html)
  * [Departments](http://www.canada.ca/en/gov/dept/index.html)
  * [Français](/scripts/changelanguage.asp)

![Symbol of the Government of Canada](/build/theme-gcwu-fegc/images/wmms.gif)

[Justice Laws Website](/eng)

## Search

Search website

## Site menu

  * ### Family Law

    * [Child Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/child-enfant/index.html)
    * [Divorce and Separation](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/divorce/index.html)
    * [Enforcing Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/enforce-execution/index.html)
    * [Family Justice Services](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/fjs-sjf/index.html)
    * [Custody and Parenting](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/parent/index.html)
    * [Spousal Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/spousal-epoux/index.html)
    * [Publications](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/pub.html)
    * [Provincial and Territorial Contacts](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/pt-tp/index.html)
    * [Contact Us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/contact/index.html)

[Family Law - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/index.html)

  * ### Criminal Justice

    * [Youth Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/yj-jj/index.html)
    * [Victims](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/victims-victimes/index.html)
    * [Family Violence](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/fv-vf/index.html)
    * [Criminal Conviction Review](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ccr-rc/index.html)
    * [Human Trafficking](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/tp/index.html)
    * [War Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/wc-cdg/index.html)
    * [National Security](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ns-sn/index.html)
    * [Extradition and Mutual Legal Assistance](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/emla-eej/index.html)

[Criminal Justice - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/index.html)

  * ### Funding

    * [Aboriginal Communities](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/acf-fca/index.html)
    * [Criminal Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/cj-jp/index.html)
    * [Family Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/famil/index.html)
    * [Justice System and Policy](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/jsp-sjp/index.html)
    * [Funding for Other Levels of Government](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/gov-gouv/index.html)
    * [Apply for Funding](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/form.html)

[Funding - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/index.html)

  * ### Canada's System of Justice

    * [About Canada's System of Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/just/)
    * [Bijuralism and Harmonization](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/harmonization/index.html)
    * [Canada's Court System](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/ccs-ajc/)
    * [Justice in Official Languages](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/franc/index.html)
    * [Legal Dualism and Bilingual Bisystemism](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/dualism-dualisme/index.html)

[Canada's System of Justice - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/)

  * ### Laws

    * [Constitutional Documents](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/Const/Const_index.html)
    * [Acts](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/)
    * [Regulations](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/regulations/)
    * [Search for an Act or Regulation ](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/Search/Search.aspx)

[Laws - More](/eng/)

## Breadcrumb trail

  1. [Home](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng)
  2. [Laws Website Home](/eng)
  3. [Consolidated Acts](/eng/acts/)
  4. [R.S.C. 1970, c. V-2 -  Table of Contents](../index.html)
  5. [ Previous versions](../PITIndex.html)
  6. R.S.C. 1970, c. V-2

[This Web page has been archived on the Web.](/eng/ArchiveNote)

Version of document from 2002-12-31 to 2005-12-30:

# Veterans Benefit Act

R.S.C. 1970, c. V-2

An Act respecting benefits for members of the Canadian Forces

# SHORT TITLE

###### Marginal note:Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Veterans Benefit Act](/eng/acts/V-1.3).

  * 1953-54, c. 65, s. 1.

# INTERPRETATION

###### Marginal note:Definitions

**2.** In this Act

“Canadian Forces”

« Forces canadiennes »

    

“Canadian Forces” means the forces referred to in section 15 of the [National
Defence Act](/eng/acts/N-5), chapter 184 of the Revised Statutes of Canada,
1952, as that section read on the 31st day of October 1953;

“Minister”

« Ministre »

    

“Minister” means the Minister of Veterans Affairs;

“service in a theatre of operations”

« service sur un théâtre d’opérations »

    

“service in a theatre of operations” means any service of a member of the
Canadian Forces from the time of his departure at any time prior to the 27th
day of July 1953 from Canada or the United States, including Alaska, to
participate in military operations undertaken by the United Nations to restore
peace in the Republic of Korea, until

  * (_a_) he next returns to Canada or the United States, including Alaska;

  * (_b_) he is next posted to a unit that is not participating in such operations;

  * (_c_) the unit with which he is serving, having ceased to participate in such operations, arrives at the place to which it has been next assigned; or

  * (_d_) the 31st day of October 1953,

whichever is the earliest;

“special force”

« contingent spécial »

    

“special force” means the Royal Canadian Navy Special Force, Canadian Army
Special Force and the Royal Canadian Air Force Special Force, as constituted
from time to time by the Minister of National Defence;

“unit”

« unité »

    

“unit” means a unit or other element of the Canadian Forces organized by or
under the authority of the Minister of National Defence.

  * R.S., 1970, c. V-2, s. 2;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 93(F).

# WAR SERVICE GRANTS ACT

###### Marginal note:Application

  * **3.** (1) The [War Service Grants Act](/eng/acts/W-2.5) applies to members of the Canadian Forces described in paragraphs (2)(_a_), (_b_) and (_c_) as specified in this section.

  * ###### Marginal note:“Member of the forces”

(2) The expressions “member” and “member of the forces”, as defined in section
2 of the said Act, include

    * (_a_) every person who was enrolled for the purpose of serving in the special force and who has been on service in a theatre of operations;

    * (_b_) every officer or non-commissioned member of the reserve forces who has been on service in a theatre of operations on the strength of the special force; and

    * (_c_) every member of the regular forces who has been on service in a theatre of operations on the strength of the special force.

  * ###### Marginal note:“Discharge”

(3) The expression “discharge”, as defined in section 2 of the said Act,
means, in the case of a person described in paragraph (2)(_a_) of this
section, honourable termination of his service in the special force otherwise
than by reason of engagement in the regular forces, and in the case of a
person described in paragraph (2)(_b_) or (_c_) of this section means,

    * (_a_) honourable termination of his service in or with the regular forces, including, in the case of an officer or non-commissioned member of the reserve forces, return to reserve status; and

    * (_b_) in any case where his service in or with the regular forces has not been terminated,

      * (i) if his service in a theatre of operations has been honourably terminated and immediate leave has been granted to him, the reporting by him to a unit on the expiration of such leave,

      * (ii) if his service in a theatre of operations has been honourably terminated without immediate leave having been granted to him, the commencement by him, pursuant to orders, of further duty in a unit other than a unit of the special force, and

      * (iii) if he has been evacuated on medical grounds from a theatre of operations for the purpose of further medical treatment, his admission to a hospital in Canada.

  * ###### Marginal note:“Pay and allowances”

(4) The expression “pay and allowances”, as defined in section 2 of the said
Act, means the following pay and allowances prescribed by the regulations
under section 35 of the [National Defence Act](/eng/acts/N-5):

    * (_a_) pay of rank, including group pay and progressive pay;

    * (_b_) if marriage allowance is being paid, marriage allowance and separated family’s allowance at the rates applicable to an officer or non-commissioned member in receipt of subsistence allowance and not occupying married quarters; and

    * (_c_) subsistence allowance, whether or not it is being paid to the officer or non-commissioned member concerned, at the rates applicable in Canada.

  * ###### Marginal note:“Service”

(5) The expression “service”, as defined in section 2 of the said Act, means
time served in the Canadian Forces.

  * ###### Marginal note:Subsections 3(1) and (2)

(6) For the purposes of this section, subsections 3(1) and (2) of the said Act
are deemed to read as follows:

> ###### Marginal note:Gratuity payable to member of the forces

>

>     * **“3.** (1) Subject to this Act, every member of the forces is, upon
discharge, entitled to be paid a war service gratuity at the rate of fifty
cents a day for each day of paid service in a theatre of operations.

>

>     * ###### Marginal note:Supplemental gratuity

>

> (2) In addition to the amount mentioned in subsection (1), every member of
the forces is, upon discharge, entitled to be paid for each period of one
hundred and eighty-three days of paid service in a theatre of operations, and
proportionately for any less period, an amount equal to seven days pay and
allowances at the rate payable to or in respect of such member at the
termination of his last such period of service preceding discharge.”

  * ###### Marginal note:Subsection 5(1)

(7) For the purposes of this section, subsection 5(1) of the said Act is
deemed to read as follows:

> ###### Marginal note:Payment of gratuity in case of death of member

>

>     * **“5.** (1) Where a member of the forces dies while on service or
after discharge but before he has been paid his gratuity in full, payment of
the gratuity or the unpaid balance thereof shall be made to

>

>       * (_a_) any person to or on behalf of whom marriage allowance was
payable immediately prior to such member’s death or discharge;

>

>       * (_b_) any person who, in the opinion of the Minister, was eligible
to be paid such marriage allowance immediately prior to such member’s death or
discharge;

>

>       * (_c_) any person on whose behalf, in the opinion of the Minister,
marriage allowance would have been payable immediately prior to such member’s
death or discharge, had not such person been a member of the forces; or

>

>       * (_d_) any person who, in the opinion of the Minister, was wholly or
substantially dependent upon such member at the time of such member’s death;

>

> and where there is no person to whom payment may be made under paragraph
(_a_), (_b_), (_c_) or (_d_), the gratuity shall form part of the deceased
member’s service estate or, at the option of the Minister, shall be paid to
such person as the Minister directs.”

  * R.S., 1970, c. V-2, s. 3;
  * 1985, c. 26, s. 66.

**4.** [Repealed, 1993, c. 34, s. 133]

**5.** [Repealed, 2000, c. 34, s. 56]

# VETERANS’ LAND ACT

###### Marginal note:Application

  * **6.** (1) The [Veterans’ Land Act](/eng/acts/V-1.5) applies to members of the Canadian Forces included under subsection (2) in the expression “veteran” therein referred to.

  * ###### Marginal note:“Veteran”

(2) The expression “veteran”, as defined in subsection 2(1) of the said Act,
includes every person described in paragraphs 4(2)(_a_), (_b_), (_c_) and
(_d_) of this Act.

  * ###### Marginal note:Persons qualified to participate

(3) Where any contract has been entered into under section 11 or 26 of the
said Act, or any grant has been made under section 45 or 46 of the said Act,
with or to any person described in paragraph 4(2)(_a_), (_b_), (_c_) or (_d_)
of this Act in respect of his service during the war declared by His Majesty
on the 10th day of September 1939, and the contract or the agreement relating
to the grant is rescinded or otherwise terminated prior to his discharge
referred to in subsection 4(2) of this Act and,

    * (_a_) in the case of the contract, prior to the expiration of the ten-year period referred to in subsection 11(5) of the said Act, or

    * (_b_) in the case of the agreement relating to the grant, prior to the expiration of the period after which, under the agreement, he is not required to repay the grant,

such person is qualified to participate in the benefits of the said Act if he
pays to The Director, The Veterans’ Land Act, the amount of any loss sustained
by the Crown by reason of such contract or grant, as determined by the
Minister.

  * ###### Marginal note:Persons not qualified to receive additional benefits

(4) Except as provided in subsection (3), no person described in paragraph
4(2)(_a_), (_b_), (_c_) or (_d_) of this Act who has entered into a contract
with the Director under section 11 or 26 of the said Act or has received any
grant under section 45 or 46 of the said Act is qualified to receive any
additional benefits under that Act by virtue of this section.

  * R.S., 1970, c. V-2, s. 6;
  * 1980-81-82-83, c. 78, s. 13.

# VETERANS INSURANCE ACT

###### Marginal note:Application

  * **7.** (1) The [Veterans Insurance Act](/eng/acts/V-1.4) applies to members of the Canadian Forces described in paragraphs (2)(_a_), (_b_), (_c_) and (_d_), and their dependants, as specified in this section.

  * ###### Marginal note:“Veteran”

(2) The expression “veteran”, as defined in subsection 2(1) of the said Act,
includes

    * (_a_) every person who was enrolled for the purpose of serving in the special force, who has been on service in a theatre of operations and who has been discharged from such force;

    * (_b_) every officer or non-commissioned member of the reserve forces who has been on service in a theatre of operations on the strength of the special force, and whose service with the regular forces has been terminated;

    * (_c_) every member of the regular forces who has been on service in a theatre of operations on the strength of the special force and who has been discharged from the regular forces; and

    * (_d_) every person described in paragraph 4(2)(_d_) of this Act.

  * ###### Marginal note:“Discharge from service”

(3) The expression “discharge from service”, as defined in subsection 2(1) of
the said Act, means, in the case of a person described in paragraph (2)(_b_)
of this section, termination of his service with the regular forces.

  * ###### Marginal note:Subparagraph 3(1)(_b_)(iii)

(4) For the purposes of this section, subparagraph 3(1)(_b_)(iii) of the said
Act is deemed to read as follows:

>     * “(iii) a person who is a member of the regular forces and has been on
service in a theatre of operations on the strength of the special force,”.

  * ###### Marginal note:Minister may enter into contract with widow

(5) Where any person described in paragraph (2)(_a_), (_b_), (_c_) or (_d_) of
this section or subsection (4) of this section who is eligible for insurance
under the [Veterans Insurance Act](/eng/acts/V-1.4) by virtue of this section
dies without having obtained any contract of insurance thereunder, the
Minister may enter into a contract of insurance under that Act with the widow
of such person at any time prior to the expiration of the period during which
such person, had he lived, would have been eligible for a contract of
insurance under that Act.

  * ###### Marginal note:Idem

(6) Where any person who served in a theatre of operations on the strength of
the special force has died prior to the 26th day of June 1954 and prior to the
termination of his service with the special force or the regular forces, the
Minister may enter into a contract of insurance under the [Veterans Insurance
Act](/eng/acts/V-1.4) with the widow of such person as though that person had
died on or after that date and as though he had been discharged from the said
force or forces or his service therewith had been terminated immediately prior
to his death.

  * ###### Marginal note:Time limit

(7) No contract of insurance may be entered into by the Minister under the
said Act with any person described in paragraph (2)(_a_), (_b_), (_c_) or
(_d_) of this section or subsection (4) of this section after the 31st day of
October 1958.

  * R.S., 1970, c. V-2, s. 7;
  * 1985, c. 26, s. 66.

**8.** [Repealed, 1993, c. 34, s. 134]

# PUBLIC SERVICE EMPLOYMENT ACT

###### Marginal note:Korean War veterans

  * **9.** (1) Paragraphs 16(4)(_b_) and 17(4)(_b_) and subsection 17(5) of the [Public Service Employment Act](/eng/acts/P-33.01) apply to every person not described in subsection (2) who

    * (_a_) has served in or on the strength of the special force and, at the commencement of such service, was domiciled in Canada or was a Canadian citizen,

    * (_b_) has served in a theatre of operations, and

    * (_c_) has not, by reason of misconduct, ceased so to serve,

as though that person were a veteran within the meaning of that Act.

  * ###### Marginal note:Korean War veterans pensioned for disability

(2) Paragraphs 16(4)(_a_) and 17(4)(_a_) and subsection 17(5) of the [Public
Service Employment Act](/eng/acts/P-33.01) apply to every person who

    * (_a_) is in receipt of a pension under the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6) for disability resulting from an injury or disease or an aggravation thereof that was attributable to or was incurred during service in or on the strength of the special force or during service in a theatre of operations;

    * (_b_) at the commencement of his service in or on the strength of the special force, was domiciled in Canada or was a Canadian citizen;

    * (_c_) has, from causes attributable to his service in or on the strength of the special force, lost the capacity for physical exertion to such an extent as to render him unfit efficiently to pursue the vocation that he was pursuing before such service; and

    * (_d_) has not been successfully re-established in some other vocation.

  * R.S., 1970, c. V-2, s. 9;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 57.

###### Marginal note:Application

**10.** The [Public Service Superannuation Act](/eng/acts/P-36) applies, in such manner and to such extent as the Governor in Council may prescribe, to and in respect of every person who was enrolled for the purpose of serving in the special force, and every officer and non-commissioned member of the regular forces or the reserve forces who served on the strength of the special force, as though his service on the strength of the special force were active service in the forces during World War II within the meaning of that Act.

  * R.S., 1970, c. V-2, s. 10;
  * 1985, c. 26, s. 66.

**11.** [Repealed, 1988, c. 2, s. 68]

###### Marginal note:Existing rights preserved

**12.** Nothing in this Act shall be held to prejudice any right, benefit or privilege that any person had, under any of the enactments to which this Act applies, prior to the 26th day of June 1954.

  * 1953-54, c. 65, s. 13.

  * Veterans Benefit Act
    * 1 - SHORT TITLE
    * 2 - INTERPRETATION
    * 3 - WAR SERVICE GRANTS ACT
    * 6 - VETERANS’ LAND ACT
    * 7 - VETERANS INSURANCE ACT
    * 9 - PUBLIC SERVICE EMPLOYMENT ACT

Date modified:

    2015-06-04

## Secondary menu

### Laws

  * [Constitutional Documents](/eng/Const/Const_index.html)
  * [Consolidated Acts](/eng/acts/)
  * [Consolidated Regulations](/eng/regulations/)
  * [Annual Statutes](/eng/AnnualStatutes/index.html)
  * [Statutes Repeal Act: Reports and Repeals](/eng/Reports/)
  * [Miscellaneous Statute Law Amendment Program](/eng/MSLA/)

### Search

  * [Basic Search](/Search/Search.aspx)
  * [Advanced Search](/Search/Advanced.aspx)

### Resources

  * [Table of Public Statutes and Responsible Ministers](/eng/TablePublicStatutes/index.html)
  * [Table of Private Acts](/eng/TablePrivateActs/index.html)
  * [Consolidated Index of Statutory Instruments](/eng/IndexStatutoryInstruments)
  * [Related Resources](/eng/RelatedResources)

### Help

  * [Accessibility](/eng/Accessibility)
  * [FAQ](/eng/FAQ)
  * [General](/eng/GeneralHelp)
  * [Search Help](/eng/SearchHelp)
  * [PDF Help](/eng/PDFHelp)
  * [How to Create Stable Links](/eng/LinkingGuide)
  * [Printing](/eng/Printing)
  * [Glossary](/eng/Glossary)
  * [Important Note](/eng/ImportantNote)

## Footer

### Site footer

  * [Terms and conditions](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/terms-avis/index.html)
  * [Transparency](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/trans/index.html)

#### [Contact us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/index.html)

  * [Policy on Legal Assistance](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm4.html)
  * [Service on the Crown ](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm3.html)
  * [Guide to Canadian Legal Information](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm2.html)
  * [Help](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/help-aide.html)
  * [Helpful Links](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/link-lien.html)

#### [About us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/index.html)

  * [The Minister and Attorney General](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/mag-mpg.html)
  * [Organization](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/org.html)
  * [Acts and Regulations](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/trans/ar-lr/index.html)
  * [Careers and Articling ](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/recru/index.html)
  * [Reports and Publications](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/rp-pr/index.html)
  * [Sustainable Development](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/sd-dd/index.html)

#### [News](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/index.html)

  * [News Releases](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=1&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=26&crtr.mnthStrtVl=2&crtr.yrStrtVl=2008&crtr.dyndVl=31&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Backgrounders](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=930&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=26&crtr.mnthStrtVl=2&crtr.yrStrtVl=2008&crtr.dyndVl=27&crtr.mnthndVl=3&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Judicial Appointments](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/ja-nj.asp?tid=4)
  * [Speeches](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=970&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=21&crtr.mnthStrtVl=1&crtr.yrStrtVl=2002&crtr.dyndVl=21&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Media Notices](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=3&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=9&crtr.mnthStrtVl=1&crtr.yrStrtVl=2012&crtr.dyndVl=9&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Photo Gallery](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/photo/index.html)

#### [Stay connected](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/connect-branches.html)

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [RSS](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/rss.html)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/user/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [Public Consultations](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cons/index.html)

### Government of Canada footer

  * [Health](http://healthycanadians.gc.ca/index-eng.php)
  * [Travel](http://www.travel.gc.ca/index-eng.asp)
  * [Service Canada](http://www.servicecanada.gc.ca/eng/home.shtml)
  * [Jobs](http://www.jobbank.gc.ca/intro-eng.aspx)
  * [Economy](http://actionplan.gc.ca/eng/index.asp)
  * [Canada.ca](http://www.canada.ca/en/index.html)

![DCSIMG](//j1.justice.gc.ca/dcs7902nd5ihvq0jmbpwr0wnu_8j4x/njs.gif?dcsuri=/no
javascript&WT.js=No&WT.tv=9.4.0&dcssip=www.laws-lois.justice.gc.ca)

  *[R.S.C.]: Revised Statutes of Canada

