  * Skip to main content
  * Skip to secondary menu

## Site menu

![Government of Canada](/build/theme-gcwu-fegc/images/sig-eng.gif)

  * [Canada.ca](http://www.canada.ca/en/index.html)
  * [Services](http://www.canada.ca/en/services/index.html)
  * [Departments](http://www.canada.ca/en/gov/dept/index.html)
  * [Français](/scripts/changelanguage.asp)

![Symbol of the Government of Canada](/build/theme-gcwu-fegc/images/wmms.gif)

[Justice Laws Website](/eng)

## Search

Search website

## Site menu

  * ### Family Law

    * [Child Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/child-enfant/index.html)
    * [Divorce and Separation](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/divorce/index.html)
    * [Enforcing Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/enforce-execution/index.html)
    * [Family Justice Services](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/fjs-sjf/index.html)
    * [Custody and Parenting](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/parent/index.html)
    * [Spousal Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/spousal-epoux/index.html)
    * [Publications](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/pub.html)
    * [Provincial and Territorial Contacts](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/pt-tp/index.html)
    * [Contact Us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/contact/index.html)

[Family Law - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/index.html)

  * ### Criminal Justice

    * [Youth Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/yj-jj/index.html)
    * [Victims](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/victims-victimes/index.html)
    * [Family Violence](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/fv-vf/index.html)
    * [Criminal Conviction Review](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ccr-rc/index.html)
    * [Human Trafficking](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/tp/index.html)
    * [War Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/wc-cdg/index.html)
    * [National Security](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ns-sn/index.html)
    * [Extradition and Mutual Legal Assistance](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/emla-eej/index.html)

[Criminal Justice - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/index.html)

  * ### Funding

    * [Aboriginal Communities](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/acf-fca/index.html)
    * [Criminal Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/cj-jp/index.html)
    * [Family Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/famil/index.html)
    * [Justice System and Policy](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/jsp-sjp/index.html)
    * [Funding for Other Levels of Government](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/gov-gouv/index.html)
    * [Apply for Funding](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/form.html)

[Funding - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/index.html)

  * ### Canada's System of Justice

    * [About Canada's System of Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/just/)
    * [Bijuralism and Harmonization](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/harmonization/index.html)
    * [Canada's Court System](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/ccs-ajc/)
    * [Justice in Official Languages](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/franc/index.html)
    * [Legal Dualism and Bilingual Bisystemism](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/dualism-dualisme/index.html)

[Canada's System of Justice - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/)

  * ### Laws

    * [Constitutional Documents](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/Const/Const_index.html)
    * [Acts](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/)
    * [Regulations](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/regulations/)
    * [Search for an Act or Regulation ](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/Search/Search.aspx)

[Laws - More](/eng/)

## Breadcrumb trail

  1. [Home](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng)
  2. [Laws Website Home](/eng)
  3. [Consolidated Acts](/eng/acts/)
  4. [S.C. 1991, c. 52 -  Table of Contents](../index.html)
  5. [ Previous versions](../PITIndex.html)
  6. S.C. 1991, c. 52

[This Web page has been archived on the Web.](/eng/ArchiveNote)

Version of document from 2002-12-31 to 2011-12-31:

# Telesat Canada Reorganization and Divestiture Act

S.C. 1991, c. 52

Assented to 1991-12-17

An Act to provide for the continuance of Telesat Canada under the Canada
Business Corporations Act and for the disposal of the shares therein of Her
Majesty in right of Canada

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of
Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

# SHORT TITLE

###### Marginal note:Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Telesat Canada Reorganization and Divestiture Act](/eng/acts/T-6.1).

# INTERPRETATION

###### Marginal note:Definitions

  * **2.** (1) In this Act,

“Commission”

    

“Commission”[Repealed, 1993, c. 38, s. 122]

“control”

« contrôle »

    

“control” means control in any manner that results in control in fact, whether
directly through the ownership of securities or indirectly through a trust,
agreement or arrangement, the ownership of any body corporate or otherwise;

“divestiture date”

« date d’aliénation »

    

“divestiture date” means the date on which shares of Telesat are first sold or
otherwise disposed of by the Minister pursuant to subsection 5(1);

“Minister”

« ministre »

    

“Minister” means such member of the Queen’s Privy Council for Canada as is
designated by the Governor in Council as the Minister for the purposes of this
Act or, if no member is so designated, the Minister of State (Finance and
Privatization);

“person”

« personne »

    

“person” includes any individual, partnership, body corporate, unincorporated
organization, government or agency thereof, trustee, executor, administrator
or other legal representative;

“Telesat”

« Télésat »

    

“Telesat” means Telesat Canada, a corporation continued by the Telesat Canada
Act and includes any successor by way of amalgamation.

  * ###### Marginal note:Same meaning

(2) Unless a contrary intention appears, words and expressions used in this
Act have the same meaning as in the [Canada Business Corporations
Act](/eng/acts/C-44).

  * ###### Marginal note:Operation of [Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44) and Telesat Canada Act

(3) In the event of any inconsistency between this Act and either the [Canada
Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44) or the Telesat Canada Act, or
anything issued, made or established under either of those Acts, this Act
prevails to the extent of the inconsistency.

  * ###### Marginal note:Operation of [Competition Act](/eng/acts/C-34)

(4) Nothing in, or done under the authority of, this Act affects the operation
of the [Competition Act](/eng/acts/C-34) in respect of the acquisition of any
interest in Telesat.

  * 1991, c. 52, s. 2;
  * 1993, c. 38, s. 122;
  * 1994, c. 24, s. 34(F).

# HER MAJESTY

###### Marginal note:Binding on Her Majesty

**3.** This Act is binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada or a province.

# TRANSFER OF SHARES TO MINISTER

###### Marginal note:Transfer of Minister of Finance shares

  * **4.** (1) The common shares of Telesat held by Her Majesty in right of Canada as represented by the Minister of Finance are hereby transferred to the Minister.

  * ###### Marginal note:Transfer of CNR shares

(2) The common shares of Telesat held by the Canadian National Railway Company
are hereby transferred to the Minister.

  * ###### Marginal note:Authority to acquire

(3) The Minister is hereby authorized to acquire the shares transferred by
subsections (1) and (2).

  * ###### Marginal note:Registration of shares

(4) The shares transferred to the Minister by subsections (1) and (2) shall be
registered in the books of Telesat in the name of the Minister and shall be
held by the Minister in trust for Her Majesty in right of Canada.

  * ###### Marginal note:Provisions not applicable

(5) Section 20 and subsections 26(1) and (2) and 27(2) of the Telesat Canada
Act do not apply in respect of shares transferred by subsections (1) and (2).

# DISPOSAL OF SHARES BY MINISTER

###### Marginal note:Power to sell or dispose of shares

  * **5.** (1) On such terms and conditions as the Governor in Council may approve, the Minister may

    * (_a_) sell or otherwise dispose of the shares transferred to the Minister by section 4; and

    * (_b_) enter into any agreement or arrangement necessary for or incidental to any disposal under paragraph (_a_).

  * ###### Marginal note:Payments to CNR

(2) Where the Minister sells any shares pursuant to subsection (1), the
Minister is hereby authorized to pay out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund to
the Canadian National Railway Company an amount equal to that proportion of
the net proceeds of the sale of the shares that the number of shares
transferred to the Minister by subsection 4(2) is of the total number of
shares transferred to the Minister by section 4.

  * ###### Marginal note:Credit to Debt Servicing and Reduction Account

(3) If, during the third session of the thirty-fourth Parliament, Bill C-21,
entitled An Act relating to the accounting of certain payments for the
servicing and reduction of the debt of Canada, is assented to, then, the
amount, if any, by which the net proceeds of the sale of any shares pursuant
to subsection (1), other than net proceeds paid pursuant to subsection (2),
exceeds the value of the shares as shown in the accounts of Canada immediately
before the sale shall be credited to the Debt Servicing and Reduction Account
established by that Act.

# CONTINUANCE

###### Marginal note:Submission to Minister

  * **6.** (1) Forthwith after this section comes into force, Telesat shall submit an application for a certificate of continuance of Telesat under section 187 of the [Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44) to the Minister for approval.

  * ###### Marginal note:Submission to Director

(2) Forthwith after the Minister approves an application submitted pursuant to
subsection (1), Telesat shall submit the approved application to the Director.

  * ###### Marginal note:Presumption

(3) An application submitted to the Director pursuant to this section is,
subject to this Act, deemed for all purposes to have been made under
subsection 187(1) of the [Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44).

  * 1991, c. 52, s. 6;
  * 1994, c. 24, s. 34(F).

**7.** [Repealed, 1993, c. 38, s. 123]

###### Marginal note:Restrictions

  * **8.** (1) Telesat and its shareholders and directors shall not, unless authorized by an Act of Parliament,

    * (_a_) make any articles or by-laws inconsistent with this Act;

    * (_b_) apply for continuance of Telesat in another jurisdiction; or

    * (_c_) dissolve Telesat.

  * ###### Marginal note:Bankruptcy laws

(2) No Act relating to the solvency or winding-up of a corporation applies to
Telesat and in no case shall the affairs of Telesat be wound up unless
authorized by an Act of Parliament.

  * 1991, c. 52, s. 8;
  * 1993, c. 38, s. 124.

# CORPORATE AFFAIRS AND STATUS

###### Marginal note:Activities of Telesat

  * **9.** (1) Telesat shall

    * (_a_) establish satellite telecommunication systems that provide, on a commercial basis, telecommunication services between locations in Canada and, subject to the appropriate intergovernmental arrangements, to and between other locations;

    * (_b_) supply, on a commercial basis, satellite telecommunication systems and elements thereof in Canada; and

    * (_c_) provide, on a commercial basis, services associated with the development, implementation and operation of satellite telecommunication systems and elements thereof in Canada.

  * ###### Marginal note:No restriction imposed

(2) Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting the capacity,
rights, powers and privileges of Telesat or as imposing a restriction on the
businesses that it may carry on.

###### Marginal note:Name

**10.** Notwithstanding subsection 10(1) of the [Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44), Telesat may continue to use, and be legally designated by, the name “Telesat Canada” on and after the day on which it becomes a corporation to which that Act applies.

  * 1991, c. 52, s. 10;
  * 1994, c. 24, s. 34(F).

**11\. to 14.** [Repealed, 1993, c. 38, s. 125]

# REPEAL

###### Marginal note:Repeal of R.S., c. T-6

  * **Footnote *15.** (1) The Telesat Canada Act is repealed on the day on which Telesat becomes a corporation to which the [Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44) applies.

  * ###### Marginal note:Director to give notice

(2) The Director is not required to comply with subsection 187(6) of the
[Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44) in respect of Telesat, but
the Director shall, on issuing the certificate of continuance of Telesat,
cause a notice to be published in the [Canada
Gazette](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) setting out the date on which the
certificate was issued and on which the Telesat Canada Act was repealed.

    * Return to footnote *[Note: Notice given March 27, 1992, _see_ Canada Gazette Part I, Volume 126, page 1539.]

  * 1991, c. 52, s. 15;
  * 1994, c. 24, s. 34(F).

# TRANSITIONAL

###### Marginal note:First annual meeting after divestiture

**16.** The first annual meeting of shareholders of Telesat after the divestiture date shall be held not later than six months after that date.

The following provision is not in force.

###### Marginal note:Board of directors

  * **17.** (1) The affairs of Telesat shall be managed by a board of directors consisting of fifteen directors, eight of whom shall be appointed by the Governor in Council to hold office during pleasure for a term not exceeding one year and the rest of whom shall be elected annually by the shareholders of Telesat, other than Her Majesty in right of Canada.

  * ###### Marginal note:Quorum

(2) Eight directors, at least five of whom are directors appointed by the
Governor in Council, constitute a quorum at any meeting of the board of
directors of Telesat.

  * ###### Marginal note:By-law concerning directors

(3) The board of directors of Telesat may, by by-law,

    * (_a_) provide for the matters referred to in paragraph 12(4)(_b_) of the Telesat Canada Act; and

    * (_b_) fix, within the number of directors to be elected, the number of directors to be elected by the holders of common shares of Telesat who are persons who fulfil the statutory conditions as defined in that Act and the number of directors to be elected by such holders who are approved telecommunications common carriers as so defined.

  * ###### Marginal note:Reconstitution of board

(4) On the coming into force of this section,

    * (_a_) the directors of Telesat who held office immediately before that coming into force continue to hold office according to the terms of their appointment or election; and

    * (_b_) three directors of Telesat shall forthwith be appointed by the Governor in Council to hold office during pleasure for a term not exceeding one year.

  * ###### Marginal note:Vacancy in office of appointed director

(5) A vacancy occurring before the divestiture date in the office of an
appointed director of Telesat shall be filled by appointment made by the
Governor in Council for the unexpired term of the person who vacated the
office or, if that person was not appointed for a fixed term, for a term not
exceeding one year.

  * ###### Marginal note:Vacancy in office of elected director

(6) A vacancy occurring before the divestiture date in the office of an
elected director of Telesat shall be filled for the unexpired term of the
person who vacated the office, by appointment made by the directors of Telesat
who were elected by the same group as elected that person.

  * ###### Marginal note:Expiration

(7) Subsections (1) to (6) and any by-law made under subsection (3) expire at
the close of the first annual meeting of shareholders of Telesat held after
the divestiture date.

###### Marginal note:Continuation in office

  * **18.** (1) The directors of Telesat who held office immediately before the day on which Telesat becomes a corporation to which the [Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44) applies continue to hold office according to the terms of their appointment or election.

  * ###### Marginal note:Termination of office

(2) Notwithstanding section 17 and subsection (1), a director of Telesat
ceases to hold office at the close of the first annual meeting of shareholders
of Telesat held after the divestiture date, unless elected at that meeting as
a director.

  * 1991, c. 52, s. 18;
  * 1994, c. 24, s. 34(F).

###### Marginal note:No right to compensation

**19.** No person has any right to claim or receive any compensation, damages, indemnity or other form of relief from Her Majesty in right of Canada or any servant or agent thereof for ceasing to hold office pursuant to section 17 or 18.

###### Marginal note:Shares qualified

  * **20.** (1) For the purpose of qualifying the shares of Telesat

    * (_a_) as an authorized investment under paragraph 86(_n_) of the Canadian and British Insurance Companies Act, paragraph 61(1)(_j_) of the Loan Companies Act or paragraph 78(1)(_j_) of the Trust Companies Act,

    * (_b_) as a permitted investment under paragraph 1(_s_) of Schedule III to the [Pension Benefits Standards Regulations, 1985](/eng/regulations/SOR-87-19), and

    * (_c_) as assets that may be vested in trust in Canada under paragraph 1(_n_) of Schedule II to the Canadian and British Insurance Companies Act or paragraph 1(_n_) of the schedule to the Foreign Insurance Companies Act,

Telesat is deemed to have satisfied the requirements of the provisions
referred to in paragraphs (_a_) to (_c_) with respect to the period of five
years immediately preceding the divestiture date.

  * ###### Marginal note:Debt obligations qualified

(2) For the purpose of qualifying the bonds, debentures or other evidences of
indebtedness of Telesat

    * (_a_) as an authorized investment under subparagraph 86(_k_)(i) of the Canadian and British Insurance Companies Act, paragraph 61(1)(_g_) of the Loan Companies Act or paragraph 78(1)(_g_) of the Trust Companies Act,

    * (_b_) as a permitted investment under paragraph 1(_m_) of Schedule III to the [Pension Benefits Standards Regulations, 1985](/eng/regulations/SOR-87-19), and

    * (_c_) as assets that may be vested in trust in Canada under subparagraph 1(_k_)(i) of Schedule II to the Canadian and British Insurance Companies Act or subparagraph 1(_k_)(i) of the schedule to the Foreign Insurance Companies Act,

Telesat is deemed

    * (_d_) to have satisfied the requirements of the provisions referred to in paragraphs (_a_) to (_c_) with respect to each of the five years immediately preceding the divestiture date, and

    * (_e_) to have had amounts of paid-in capital, contributed surplus, retained earnings and total indebtedness at any relevant time before the divestiture date sufficient to have satisfied the requirements of the provisions referred to in paragraphs (_a_) to (_c_).

  * ###### Marginal note:Idem

(3) For the purpose of qualifying

    * (_a_) the bonds, debentures or other evidences of indebtedness of or guaranteed by Telesat as an authorized investment under subparagraph 86(_k_)(ii) of the Canadian and British Insurance Companies Act, paragraph 61(1)(_h_) of the Loan Companies Act or paragraph 78(1)(_h_) of the Trust Companies Act,

    * (_b_) the bonds, debentures or other evidences of indebtedness of or guaranteed by Telesat as a permitted investment under subparagraph 1(_n_)(i) of Schedule III to the [Pension Benefits Standards Regulations, 1985](/eng/regulations/SOR-87-19), and

    * (_c_) the bonds, debentures or other evidences of indebtedness of Telesat as assets that may be vested in trust in Canada under subparagraph 1(_k_)(ii) of Schedule II to the Canadian and British Insurance Companies Act or subparagraph 1(_k_)(ii) of the schedule to the Foreign Insurance Companies Act,

Telesat is deemed to have had earnings for any relevant period before the
divestiture date sufficient to have satisfied the requirements of the
provisions referred to in paragraphs (_a_) to (_c_) with respect to the period
of five years immediately preceding the divestiture date and each of those
five years.

# AMENDMENT

**21.** [Amendment]

# COMING INTO FORCE

###### Marginal note:Coming into force

  * **Footnote *22.** (1) Subsection 4(2) and sections 6, 7, 8 and 17 shall come into force on a day or days to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

  * ###### Marginal note:Idem

(2) Section 9 shall come into force on the day on which the Telesat Canada Act
is repealed.

    * Return to footnote *[Note: Subsection 4(2) in force March 6, 1992, _see_ SI/92-47; sections 6, 7 and 8 in force March 26, 1992, _see_ SI/92-69; section 9 in force March 27, 1992, _see_ Canada Gazette Part I, Volume 126, page 1539; section 17 not in force.]

  * Telesat Canada Reorganization and Divestiture Act
    * 1 - SHORT TITLE
    * 2 - INTERPRETATION
    * 3 - HER MAJESTY
    * 4 - TRANSFER OF SHARES TO MINISTER
    * 5 - DISPOSAL OF SHARES BY MINISTER
    * 6 - CONTINUANCE
    * 9 - CORPORATE AFFAIRS AND STATUS
    * 15 - REPEAL
    * 16 - TRANSITIONAL
    * 21 - AMENDMENT
    * 22 - COMING INTO FORCE

Date modified:

    2015-06-04

## Secondary menu

### Laws

  * [Constitutional Documents](/eng/Const/Const_index.html)
  * [Consolidated Acts](/eng/acts/)
  * [Consolidated Regulations](/eng/regulations/)
  * [Annual Statutes](/eng/AnnualStatutes/index.html)
  * [Statutes Repeal Act: Reports and Repeals](/eng/Reports/)
  * [Miscellaneous Statute Law Amendment Program](/eng/MSLA/)

### Search

  * [Basic Search](/Search/Search.aspx)
  * [Advanced Search](/Search/Advanced.aspx)

### Resources

  * [Table of Public Statutes and Responsible Ministers](/eng/TablePublicStatutes/index.html)
  * [Table of Private Acts](/eng/TablePrivateActs/index.html)
  * [Consolidated Index of Statutory Instruments](/eng/IndexStatutoryInstruments)
  * [Related Resources](/eng/RelatedResources)

### Help

  * [Accessibility](/eng/Accessibility)
  * [FAQ](/eng/FAQ)
  * [General](/eng/GeneralHelp)
  * [Search Help](/eng/SearchHelp)
  * [PDF Help](/eng/PDFHelp)
  * [How to Create Stable Links](/eng/LinkingGuide)
  * [Printing](/eng/Printing)
  * [Glossary](/eng/Glossary)
  * [Important Note](/eng/ImportantNote)

## Footer

### Site footer

  * [Terms and conditions](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/terms-avis/index.html)
  * [Transparency](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/trans/index.html)

#### [Contact us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/index.html)

  * [Policy on Legal Assistance](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm4.html)
  * [Service on the Crown ](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm3.html)
  * [Guide to Canadian Legal Information](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm2.html)
  * [Help](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/help-aide.html)
  * [Helpful Links](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/link-lien.html)

#### [About us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/index.html)

  * [The Minister and Attorney General](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/mag-mpg.html)
  * [Organization](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/org.html)
  * [Acts and Regulations](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/trans/ar-lr/index.html)
  * [Careers and Articling ](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/recru/index.html)
  * [Reports and Publications](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/rp-pr/index.html)
  * [Sustainable Development](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/sd-dd/index.html)

#### [News](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/index.html)

  * [News Releases](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=1&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=26&crtr.mnthStrtVl=2&crtr.yrStrtVl=2008&crtr.dyndVl=31&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Backgrounders](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=930&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=26&crtr.mnthStrtVl=2&crtr.yrStrtVl=2008&crtr.dyndVl=27&crtr.mnthndVl=3&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Judicial Appointments](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/ja-nj.asp?tid=4)
  * [Speeches](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=970&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=21&crtr.mnthStrtVl=1&crtr.yrStrtVl=2002&crtr.dyndVl=21&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Media Notices](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=3&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=9&crtr.mnthStrtVl=1&crtr.yrStrtVl=2012&crtr.dyndVl=9&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Photo Gallery](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/photo/index.html)

#### [Stay connected](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/connect-branches.html)

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [RSS](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/rss.html)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/user/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [Public Consultations](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cons/index.html)

### Government of Canada footer

  * [Health](http://healthycanadians.gc.ca/index-eng.php)
  * [Travel](http://www.travel.gc.ca/index-eng.asp)
  * [Service Canada](http://www.servicecanada.gc.ca/eng/home.shtml)
  * [Jobs](http://www.jobbank.gc.ca/intro-eng.aspx)
  * [Economy](http://actionplan.gc.ca/eng/index.asp)
  * [Canada.ca](http://www.canada.ca/en/index.html)

![DCSIMG](//j1.justice.gc.ca/dcs7902nd5ihvq0jmbpwr0wnu_8j4x/njs.gif?dcsuri=/no
javascript&WT.js=No&WT.tv=9.4.0&dcssip=www.laws-lois.justice.gc.ca)

  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada

