# Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development Act

R.S.C., 1985, c. I-6

An Act respecting the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development

## SHORT TITLE

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development Act](/canada/eng/acts/I/I-6.md).

  * R.S., c. I-7, s. 1.

## ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DEPARTMENT

###### Department established

**2.** (1) There is hereby established a department of the Government of Canada called the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development over which the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development appointed by commission under the Great Seal shall preside.

###### Minister

(2) The Minister holds office during pleasure and has the management and direction of the Department.

  * R.S., c. I-7, s. 2.

###### Deputy head

**3.** The Governor in Council may appoint an officer called the Deputy Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development to hold office during pleasure and to be the deputy head of the Department.

  * R.S., c. I-7, s. 3.

## POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE MINISTER

###### Powers, duties and functions of Minister

**4.** The powers, duties and functions of the Minister extend to and include all matters over which Parliament has jurisdiction, not by law assigned to any other department, board or agency of the Government of Canada, relating to

  * (_a_) Indian affairs;

  * (_b_) the Yukon Territory, the Northwest Territories and Nunavut and their resources and affairs; and

  * (_c_) Inuit affairs.

  * R.S., 1985, c. I-6, s. 4;
  * 1993, c. 28, s. 78.

###### Idem

**5.** The Minister shall be responsible for

  * (_a_) coordinating the activities in the Yukon Territory, the Northwest Territories and Nunavut of the several departments, boards and agencies of the Government of Canada;

  * (_b_) undertaking, promoting and recommending policies and programs for the further economic and political development of the Yukon Territory, the Northwest Territories and Nunavut; and

  * (_c_) fostering, through scientific investigation and technology, knowledge of the Canadian north and of the means of dealing with conditions related to its further development.

  * R.S., 1985, c. I-6, s. 5;
  * 1993, c. 28, s. 78.

###### Administration

**6.** The Minister has the administration of all lands situated in the Yukon Territory, the Northwest Territories and Nunavut belonging to Her Majesty in right of Canada except those lands that were immediately before October 1, 1966 under the management, charge and direction of any minister, department, branch or agency of the Government of Canada other than the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources or the Department of Northern Affairs and National Resources.

  * R.S., 1985, c. I-6, s. 6;
  * 1991, c. 50, s. 30;
  * 1993, c. 28, s. 78.

## ANNUAL REPORT

###### Annual report

**7.** The Minister shall, on or before January 31 next following the end of each fiscal year or, if Parliament is not then sitting, on any of the first five days next thereafter that either House of Parliament is sitting, submit to Parliament a report showing the operations of the Department for that fiscal year.

  * R.S., c. I-7, s. 7.
  *[R.S.C.]: Revised Statutes of Canada
