# Visiting Forces Act

R.S.C., 1985, c. V-2

An Act respecting the armed forces of countries visiting Canada

## SHORT TITLE

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Visiting Forces Act](/eng/acts/V-2).

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

###### Definitions

**2.** In this Act,

“Canadian Forces”

« Forces canadiennes »

    

“Canadian Forces” means the armed forces of Her Majesty raised by Canada;

“civil court”

« tribunal civil »

    

“civil court” means a court of ordinary criminal jurisdiction in Canada and
includes a court of summary jurisdiction;

“civil prison”

« prison civile »

    

“civil prison” means any prison, jail or other place in Canada in which
offenders sentenced by a civil court in Canada to imprisonment for less than
two years can be confined;

“dependant”

« personne à charge »

    

“dependant” means, with reference to a member of a visiting force or to a
member of the armed forces of a designated state, a person who forms part of
the member’s household and depends on the member for support;

“designated state”

« État désigné »

    

“designated state” means a state, other than Canada, that is designated under
section 4;

“detention barrack”

« caserne disciplinaire »

    

“detention barrack” means a place designated as such under the [National
Defence Act](/eng/acts/N-5);

“penitentiary”

« pénitencier »

    

“penitentiary” means a penitentiary within the meaning of Part I of the
[Corrections and Conditional Release Act](/eng/acts/C-44.6), and includes any
prison or place in which a person sentenced to imprisonment for two years or
more by a civil court having jurisdiction in the place where the sentence is
imposed can, for the time being, be confined;

“service court”

« tribunal militaire »

    

“service court” means a court martial and includes the service authorities of
a designated state who are empowered by the laws of that state to deal with
charges;

“service prison”

« prison militaire »

    

“service prison” means a place designated as such under the [National Defence
Act](/eng/acts/N-5);

“visiting force”

« force étrangère présente au Canada »

    

“visiting force” means any of the armed forces of a designated state present
in Canada in connection with official duties, and includes civilian personnel
designated under section 4 as a civilian component of a visiting force.

  * R.S., 1985, c. V-2, s. 2;
  * 1992, c. 20, s. 216;
  * 2000, c. 12, s. 316.

## PART IAPPLICATION OF ACT

###### Application of Act

**3.** This Act applies in respect of a designated state when the Governor in Council has pursuant to section 4 declared it to be applicable in respect of that state, and it applies in respect of that state only to the extent declared by the Governor in Council pursuant to that section.

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 3.

###### Proclamations

**4.** The Governor in Council may by proclamation

(_a_) designate any country as a designated state for the purposes of this
Act;

(_b_) declare the extent to which this Act is applicable in respect of any
designated state;

(_c_) designate civilian personnel as a civilian component of a visiting
force; and

(_d_) revoke or amend any designation or declaration made under paragraph
(_a_), (_b_) or (_c_).

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 4.

## PART IIDISCIPLINARY JURISDICTION OF VISITING FORCES

###### Primary right of civil courts to exercise jurisdiction

**5.** (1) Except in respect of offences mentioned in subsection 6(2), the civil courts have the primary right to exercise jurisdiction in respect of any act or omission constituting an offence against any law in force in Canada alleged to have been committed by a member of a visiting force or a dependant.

###### Previous trial by service courts

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 5.

###### Jurisdiction of service courts

**6.** (1) Subject to this Act, the service authorities and service courts of a visiting force may exercise within Canada in relation to members of that force and dependants all the criminal and disciplinary jurisdiction that is conferred on them by the law of the designated state to which they belong.

###### Primary right to exercise jurisdiction

(_a_) the property or security of the designated state,

(_b_) the person or property of another member of the visiting force or a
dependant, or

(_c_) an act done or anything omitted in the performance of official duty,

###### Previous trial by civil courts

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 6.

###### Trial by court having primary right

**7.** (1) Where under sections 5 and 6 a civil court or a service court of a visiting force has the primary right to exercise jurisdiction, the court having such primary right has the right to deal with charges against alleged offenders in the first instance, but such right may be waived in accordance with regulations.

###### Certificate

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 7.

###### Witnesses

**8.** The members of a service court of a visiting force, exercising jurisdiction by virtue of this Act, and witnesses appearing before such a service court, have the like immunities and privileges as a service tribunal exercising jurisdiction under the [National Defence Act](/eng/acts/N-5) and witnesses appearing before any such service tribunal.

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 8.

###### Sentences

**9.** (1) Where any sentence has been passed by a service court within or outside Canada on a member of the armed forces of a designated state, or a dependant, for the purposes of any legal proceedings within Canada,

(_a_) the service court shall be deemed to have been properly constituted;

(_b_) its proceedings shall be deemed to have been regularly conducted;

(_c_) the sentence shall be deemed to have been within the jurisdiction of the
service court and in accordance with the law of the designated state; and

(_d_) if the sentence has been executed according to the tenor thereof, it
shall be deemed to have been lawfully executed.

###### Detention

(_a_) in pursuance of a sentence referred to in subsection (1), or

(_b_) pending the determination by a service court of a charge brought against
the member or dependant,

###### Certificate

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 9.

###### Arrest

**10.** For the purpose of enabling the service authorities and service courts of a visiting force to exercise more effectively the powers conferred on them by this Act, the Minister of National Defence, if so requested by the officer in command of the visiting force or by the designated state, may from time to time by general or special orders to the Canadian Forces, or any part thereof, direct the officers and non-commissioned members thereof to arrest members of the visiting force or dependants alleged to have been guilty of offences against the law of the designated state and to hand over any person so arrested to the appropriate authorities of the visiting force.

  * R.S., 1985, c. V-2, s. 10;
  * R.S., 1985, c. 31 (1st Supp.), s. 61.

###### Place of incarceration

**11.** (1) Where a member of a visiting force or a dependant of any such member has been sentenced by a service court to undergo a punishment involving incarceration, the incarceration may, at the request of the officer in command of the visiting force and in accordance with the regulations, be served wholly or partly in a penitentiary, civil prison, service prison or detention barrack, and the provisions of the [National Defence Act](/eng/acts/N-5) respecting the carrying out of punishments of incarceration imposed on officers and non-commissioned members of the Canadian Forces apply with such modifications as the circumstances require.

###### Idem

  * R.S., 1985, c. V-2, s. 11;
  * R.S., 1985, c. 31 (1st Supp.), s. 61.

###### Police functions

**12.** (1) The authority of members of a visiting force to perform police functions, including the power of arrest, shall be as prescribed in the regulations, but no such regulation shall empower a member of a visiting force to perform police functions in respect of any person who is not a member of the visiting force or a dependant.

###### Citizen arrest

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 12;
  * 1972, c. 13, s. 75.

###### Application of provisions of [National Defence Act](/eng/acts/N-5)

**13.** (1) Subject to such limitations as may be prescribed in the regulations, subsections 249.22(1) to (3) and section 251.2 of the [National Defence Act](/eng/acts/N-5) apply in relation to courts martial of a visiting force, except that a person required to give evidence before a court martial of a visiting force may be summoned only by a provincial court judge or justice of the peace whose authority in that respect shall be exercised in accordance with the regulations.

###### Idem

  * R.S., 1985, c. V-2, s. 13;
  * R.S., 1985, c. 27 (1st Supp.), s. 203;
  * 1998, c. 35, s. 127.

###### Firearms and drilling

**14.** Members of a visiting force acting in the course of their duties, except civilian personnel,

(_a_) may, if authorized to do so by orders of the service authorities of the
visiting force, possess and carry explosives, ammunition and firearms; and

(_b_) are not subject to the provisions of the [Criminal Code](/eng/acts/C-46)
relating to unlawful drilling or the making or possessing of explosives.

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 14.

## PART IIICLAIMS FOR PERSONAL INJURIES AND PROPERTY DAMAGE

###### Claims against designated states

**15.** For the purposes of the [Crown Liability and Proceedings Act](/eng/acts/C-50),

(_a_) in the Province of Quebec

(i) a fault committed by a member of a visiting force while acting within the
scope of their duties or employment shall be deemed to have been committed by
a servant of the Crown while acting within the scope of their duties or
employment,

(ii) property owned by or in the custody of a visiting force shall be deemed
to be owned by or in the custody of the Crown, and

(iii) a service motor vehicle of a visiting force shall be deemed to be owned
by the Crown; and

(_b_) in any other province,

(i) a tort committed by a member of a visiting force while acting within the
scope of their duties or employment shall be deemed to have been committed by
a servant of the Crown while acting within the scope of their duties or
employment,

(ii) property owned, occupied, possessed or controlled by a visiting force
shall be deemed to be owned, occupied, possessed or controlled by the Crown,
and

(iii) a service motor vehicle of a visiting force shall be deemed to be owned
by the Crown.

  * R.S., 1985, c. V-2, s. 15;
  * 1993, c. 34, s. 135;
  * 2001, c. 4, s. 172.

###### No proceedings lie where pension payable

**16.** No proceedings lie against the Crown by virtue of section 15, or against any member of a visiting force who is deemed a servant of the Crown under section 15, in respect of a claim by a member of a visiting force or his personal representative or a dependant arising out of the death, or injury to the person, of the member, if compensation has been paid or is payable by a designated state, or out of any funds administered by an agency of a designated state, for the death or injury.

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 16.

###### Enforcement of judgment

**17.** A member of a visiting force is not subject to any proceedings for the enforcement of any judgment given against him in Canada in respect of a matter that arose while the member was acting within the scope of his duties or employment.

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 17.

###### Ships

**18.** Except as section 15 may be made applicable by order of the Governor in Council in respect of the ships of any particular designated state, that section does not apply to a claim arising out of or in connection with the navigation, operation or salvage of a ship or the loading, carriage or discharge of a cargo, unless the claim is a claim arising out of death or injury to the person.

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 18.

###### Official duty

**19.** (1) Where a question that cannot be settled by negotiation between the parties arises under this Part as to whether

the question shall be submitted to an arbitrator appointed in accordance with
subsection (2), and for the purposes of this Part the decision of the
arbitrator is final and conclusive.

(_a_) a member of a visiting force was acting within the scope of his duties
or employment, or

(_b_) a matter in respect of which judgment was given against a member of a
visiting force arose while the member was acting within the scope of his
duties or employment,

###### Appointing arbitrator

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 19.

## PART IVSECURITY PROVISIONS

###### [Security of Information Act](/eng/acts/O-5) applicable

**20.** Subject to section 21, the [Security of Information Act](/eng/acts/O-5) applies and shall be construed as applying in respect of a designated state as though

(_a_) a reference in that Act to "office under Her Majesty" included any
office or employment in or under any department or branch of the government of
a designated state;

(_b_) a reference in that Act to "prohibited place" included

(i) any work of defence belonging to or occupied or used by or on behalf of a
designated state including arsenals, armed forces establishments or stations,
factories, dockyards, mines, minefields, camps, ships, aircraft, telegraph,
telephone, wireless or signal stations or offices, and places, other than
diplomatic premises of designated states, used for the purpose of building,
repairing, making or storing any munitions of war or any sketches, plans,
models or documents relating thereto, or for the purpose of getting any
metals, oil or minerals of use in time of war, and

(ii) any place, not belonging to a designated state, where any munitions of
war or any sketches, plans, models or documents relating thereto are being
made, repaired, obtained or stored under contract with, or with any person on
behalf of, a designated state, or otherwise on behalf of a designated state;

(_c_) a reference in that Act to "safety or interests of the state" or to
"interest of the state" or to "public interest" included the safety and
security interests of a designated state;

(_d_) a reference in that Act to "contract made on behalf of Her Majesty"
included a contract made on behalf of a designated state;

(_e_) the expression "appointed by or acting under the authority of Her
Majesty" in that Act included the expression "appointed by or acting under the
authority of the government of a designated state"; and

(_f_) a reference in that Act to "any member of Her Majesty’s forces" included
a member of the visiting force of a designated state.

  * R.S., 1985, c. V-2, s. 20;
  * 2001, c. 41, s. 37.

###### Exception

**21.** Section 26 of the [Security of Information Act](/eng/acts/O-5) does not apply in respect of a designated state.

  * R.S., 1985, c. V-2, s. 21;
  * 2001, c. 41, s. 38.

## PART VTAXATION

###### Residence or domicile

**22.** (1) Where the liability for any form of taxation in Canada depends on residence or domicile, a period during which a member of a visiting force is in Canada by reason of his being a member of such visiting force shall, for the purpose of such taxation, be deemed not to be a period of residence in Canada and not to create a change of residence or domicile.

###### Salaries

###### Resident Canadian citizens excepted

  * R.S., 1985, c. V-2, s. 22;
  * 2001, c. 4, s. 127.

###### Service vehicles

**23.** No tax or fee is payable in respect of the licensing or registration of service vehicles of a visiting force or in respect of the use of such vehicles on any road in Canada.

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 23.

###### Imports

**24.** (1) Subject to the regulations, a visiting force may import into Canada, free of duty and tax, equipment for the visiting force and such quantities of provisions, supplies and other goods for the exclusive use of the visiting force as in the opinion of the Minister of National Revenue are reasonable.

###### Idem

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 24.

###### Personal effects and motor vehicles

**25.** A member of a visiting force may, in accordance with the regulations,

(_a_) at the time of his first arrival to take up service in Canada and at the
time of the first arrival of any dependant to join the member, import his
personal effects and furniture free of duty and tax; and

(_b_) import, free of duty and tax, his private motor vehicle for the personal
use of himself and his dependants temporarily, but this paragraph shall not be
construed as granting or authorizing the granting of any exemption from taxes
or fees in respect of the licensing or registration of private vehicles or the
use of the roads by private vehicles in Canada.

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 25.

###### Fuel, oil, etc.

**26.** Subject to compliance with such conditions as are prescribed by the regulations, no duty or tax is payable on any fuel, oil or lubricants intended for use exclusively in the service vehicles, aircraft or vessels of a visiting force.

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 26.

## PART VIATTACHMENTS TO AND FROM CANADIAN FORCES

###### Application of section

**27.** (1) The forces, other than the Canadian Forces, to which this section applies are the armed forces raised in a country declared by the Governor in Council as a country in respect of which this Part is applicable.

###### Temporary attachments

(_a_) may attach temporarily to the Canadian Forces a member of another force
to which this section applies who is placed at his disposal for the purpose by
the service authorities of the country to which the other force belongs; and

(_b_) subject to anything to the contrary in the conditions applicable to his
service, may place any member of the Canadian Forces at the disposal of the
service authorities of another country for the purpose of being attached
temporarily by those authorities to a force to which this section applies.

###### Law applicable to member of force attached to Canadian Forces

###### Application of Canadian statutes

###### Mutual power of command

(_a_) any member of the other force shall be treated and shall have over
members of the Canadian Forces the like powers of command as if he were a
member of the Canadian Forces of relative rank; and

(_b_) if the forces are acting in combination, any officer of the other force
appointed, by agreement between Her Majesty in right of Canada and the
government of the country to which that force belongs, to command the combined
force, or any part thereof, shall be treated and shall have over members of
the Canadian Forces the like powers of command, punishment and arrest, and may
be invested with the like authority as if he were an officer of the Canadian
Forces of relative rank and holding the same command.

###### Forces serving together or in combination

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 27.

## PART VIIREGULATIONS

###### Regulations

**28.** The Governor in Council may make regulations for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act.

  * R.S., c. V-6, s. 28.
  *[R.S.C.]: Revised Statutes of Canada

