# Veterans Review and Appeal Board Act

S.C. 1995, c. 18

Assented to 1995-06-22

An Act to establish the Veterans Review and Appeal Board, to amend the Pension
Act, to make consequential amendments to other Acts and to repeal the Veterans
Appeal Board Act

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of
Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

## SHORT TITLE

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Veterans Review and Appeal Board Act](/eng/acts/V-1.6).

## INTERPRETATION

###### Definitions

**2.** In this Act,

“Board”

« Tribunal »

    

“Board” means the Veterans Review and Appeal Board established by section 4;

“Bureau”

« Bureau »

    

“Bureau” means the Bureau of Pensions Advocates continued by section 6.1 of
the [Department of Veterans Affairs Act](/eng/acts/V-1);

“member”

Version anglaise seulement

    

“member” means a permanent or temporary member of the Board;

“Minister”

« ministre »

    

“Minister” means the Minister of Veterans Affairs or such other member of the
Queen’s Privy Council for Canada as may be designated by the Governor in
Council as the Minister for the purposes of this Act;

“prescribed”

Version anglaise seulement

    

“prescribed” means prescribed by the regulations.

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 2;
  * 2000, c. 34, ss. 94(F), 95(F).

###### Construction

**3.** The provisions of this Act and of any other Act of Parliament or of any regulations made under this or any other Act of Parliament conferring or imposing jurisdiction, powers, duties or functions on the Board shall be liberally construed and interpreted to the end that the recognized obligation of the people and Government of Canada to those who have served their country so well and to their dependants may be fulfilled.

## ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD

###### Establishment of Board

**4.** There is hereby established an independent board, to be known as the Veterans Review and Appeal Board, consisting of not more than twenty-nine permanent members to be appointed by the Governor in Council and such number of temporary members as are appointed in accordance with section 6.

###### Permanent members

**5.** (1) A permanent member holds office during good behaviour.

###### Term

###### Temporary members

**6.** (1) The Governor in Council may appoint temporary members of the Board whenever, in the opinion of the Governor in Council, the workload of the Board so requires.

###### Tenure

###### Term

###### Acting after ceasing to hold office

**7.** (1) A person who has resigned or otherwise ceased to hold office as a member may, at the request of the Chairperson, at any time within eight weeks after that event, make or take part in the disposition of any appeal, review, reference or other matter in which the person became engaged while holding that office, and a person performing duties under this subsection is deemed to be a temporary member of the Board.

###### Disposition where member unable to take part

###### Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson

**8.** (1) The Governor in Council shall designate a Chairperson and a Deputy Chairperson from among the permanent members.

###### Chief executive officer

###### Reports

###### Acting Chairperson

###### Acting Chairperson

###### Full-time occupation

**9.** A member shall perform their duties under this Act on a full-time basis and shall not hold any office or engage in any occupation inconsistent with those duties.

###### Remuneration and allowances

**10.** (1) A member shall be paid such remuneration and allowances as may be fixed by the Governor in Council.

###### Travel and living expenses

###### Presumption

**11.** (1) A member is deemed to be an employee for the purposes of the [Government Employees Compensation Act](/eng/acts/G-5) and to be employed in the public service of Canada for the purposes of any regulations made under section 9 of the [Aeronautics Act](/eng/acts/A-2).

###### Presumption

###### Head office

**12.** The head office of the Board shall be at such place in Canada as the Governor in Council may designate.

###### Officers and employees

**13.** Such officers and employees as are necessary for the proper conduct of the work of the Board shall be appointed in accordance with the [Public Service Employment Act](/eng/acts/P-33.01).

## POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS

###### Powers

**14.** The Board and each member have, with respect to the carrying out of the Board’s duties and functions under this Act, all the powers of a commissioner appointed under Part I of the [Inquiries Act](/eng/acts/I-11).

###### Access to records

**15.** Subject to any other Act of Parliament and any regulations made under any other Act of Parliament, the Board may inspect the records of the Department of Veterans Affairs and all material relating to any proceeding before the Board.

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 15;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 94(F).

###### Additional powers, duties and functions

**16.** The Board shall exercise such powers and shall perform such duties and functions as are conferred or imposed on it by or pursuant to any other Act of Parliament or any order of the Governor in Council.

###### Panels

**17.** Subject to subsections 19(1), 27(1), 34(2) and 44(2), the Chairperson may establish panels of one or more members to exercise any power or perform any duty or function of the Board designated by the Chairperson.

## REVIEW

###### Exclusive jurisdiction

**18.** The Board has full and exclusive jurisdiction to hear, determine and deal with all applications for review that may be made to the Board under the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), and all matters related to those applications.

###### Review panels

**19.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), an application for review shall be heard, determined and dealt with by a review panel consisting of not fewer than two members or, with the consent of the applicant, one member designated by the Chairperson.

###### Refusal to establish review panel

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 19;
  * 1999, c. 10, s. 38;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 66(F).

###### Written and oral submissions

**20.** An applicant may make a written submission to the review panel or may appear before it, in person or by a representative, to present evidence and arguments.

###### Disposition of application

**21.** A review panel may

(_a_) affirm, vary or reverse the decision of the Minister being reviewed;

(_b_) refer any matter back to the Minister for reconsideration; or

(_c_) refer any matter not dealt with in the decision back to the Minister for
a decision.

###### Decision to be made as soon as possible

**22.** (1) A review panel shall make its decision as soon as possible and shall notify the applicant of the decision.

###### Decision of majority

###### Absence of majority decision

###### Reconsideration of decisions

**23.** (1) A review panel may, on its own motion, reconsider a decision made by it under section 21 or this section and may either confirm the decision or amend or rescind the decision if it determines that an error was made with respect to any finding of fact or the interpretation of any law.

###### Board may exercise powers

###### Applicant and witnesses to be paid expenses, etc.

**24.** An applicant and each witness called by an applicant who attends a hearing by a review panel are entitled to be paid

(_a_) travel and living expenses incurred in attending the hearing, in
accordance with regulations made in relation to veterans health care under
subsection 5(1) of the [Department of Veterans Affairs Act](/eng/acts/V-1);
and

(_b_) in the case of a witness who is a medical practitioner, such attendance
fee as may be fixed by the Treasury Board.

  * 1995, c. 17, s. 73, c. 18, s. 24;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 95(F).

###### Appeal

**25.** An applicant who is dissatisfied with a decision made under section 21 or 23 may appeal the decision to the Board.

## APPEALS

###### Exclusive jurisdiction

**26.** The Board has full and exclusive jurisdiction to hear, determine and deal with all appeals that may be made to the Board under section 25 or under the [War Veterans Allowance Act](/eng/acts/W-3) or any other Act of Parliament, and all matters related to those appeals.

###### Appeal panel

**27.** (1) An appeal shall be heard, determined and dealt with by an appeal panel consisting of not fewer than three members designated by the Chairperson.

###### Prohibition

###### Written and oral submissions

**28.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), an appellant may make a written submission to the appeal panel or may appear before it, in person or by representative and at their own expense, to present evidence and oral arguments.

###### Documented evidence

###### Disposition of appeals

**29.** (1) An appeal panel may

(_a_) affirm, vary or reverse the decision being appealed;

(_b_) refer any matter back to the person or review panel that made the
decision being appealed for reconsideration, re-hearing or further
investigation; or

(_c_) refer any matter not dealt with in the decision back to that person or
review panel for a decision.

###### Where matter cannot be referred to review panel

###### Questions of interpretation

**30.** Where the appellant raises a question of interpretation relating to this Act, to the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), to any other Act of Parliament pursuant to which an appeal may be taken to the Board or to any regulations made under any such Act and the appeal panel is of the opinion that the question is not trivial, frivolous or vexatious, it shall notify the prescribed persons or organizations and give them an opportunity to present argument on the question before it makes its decision.

###### Decision of majority

**31.** A decision of the majority of members of an appeal panel is a decision of the Board and is final and binding.

###### Reconsideration of decisions

**32.** (1) Notwithstanding section 31, an appeal panel may, on its own motion, reconsider a decision made by it under subsection 29(1) or this section and may either confirm the decision or amend or rescind the decision if it determines that an error was made with respect to any finding of fact or the interpretation of any law, or may do so on application if the person making the application alleges that an error was made with respect to any finding of fact or the interpretation of any law or if new evidence is presented to the appeal panel.

###### Board may exercise powers

###### Other sections applicable

###### Appeal to Tax Court of Canada

**33.** (1) Notwithstanding section 31, an appeal lies to the Tax Court of Canada from any decision of an appeal panel as to income or as to the source of income, for the purposes of the [War Veterans Allowance Act](/eng/acts/W-3) or Part XI of the [Civilian War-related Benefits Act](/eng/acts/C-31), of

(_a_) a person or their spouse, or both; or

(_b_) a person or their common-law partner, or both.

###### Meaning of “common-law partner”

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 33;
  * 1999, c. 10, s. 39;
  * 2000, c. 12, s. 315.

## COMPASSIONATE AWARDS

###### Application for compassionate award

**34.** (1) A person who has been refused an award under the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6) and who has exhausted all procedures for review or appeal under this Act may apply to the Board for a compassionate award.

###### Panel

###### Granting of compassionate award

###### Amount

###### Review by Minister

###### Adjustment

###### Death of recipient

###### Meaning of “survivor” and “child”

###### Reconsideration of decisions

###### Definition of “compassionate award”

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 34;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 67.

## GENERAL

###### Representation

**35.** In all proceedings under this Act, an applicant or appellant may choose to be represented by a pensions advocate from the Bureau, by a service bureau of a veterans’ organization or, at the person’s own expense, by any other representative of the person’s choice.

###### Place and time of sittings

**36.** (1) The Board shall sit at such places in Canada and at such times as may be fixed by the Chairperson, having regard to the convenience of the applicant and the Board.

###### Hearings to be public

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 36;
  * 1999, c. 10, s. 40.

###### Questions of interpretation

**37.** (1) The Minister, the Chief Pensions Advocate, any veterans’ organization incorporated by or under an Act of Parliament or any interested person may refer to the Board for hearing and decision any question of interpretation relating to this Act, to the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), to any other Act of Parliament pursuant to which an appeal may be taken to the Board or to any regulations made under any such Act.

###### Notice

###### Refusal to hear trivial questions

###### Medical opinion

**38.** (1) The Board may obtain independent medical advice for the purposes of any proceeding under this Act and may require an applicant or appellant to undergo any medical examination that the Board may direct.

###### Notification of intention

###### Rules of evidence

**39.** In all proceedings under this Act, the Board shall

(_a_) draw from all the circumstances of the case and all the evidence
presented to it every reasonable inference in favour of the applicant or
appellant;

(_b_) accept any uncontradicted evidence presented to it by the applicant or
appellant that it considers to be credible in the circumstances; and

(_c_) resolve in favour of the applicant or appellant any doubt, in the
weighing of evidence, as to whether the applicant or appellant has established
a case.

###### Expeditious proceedings

**40.** All proceedings before the Board shall be dealt with as informally and expeditiously as the circumstances and considerations of fairness permit.

###### Immunity

**41.** No action or other proceeding lies against any person for or in respect of anything done, reported or said in good faith in any proceedings before the Board or anything reported or said in good faith in any material, information or report made or furnished by any person at the request of the Board.

###### Inquiries

**42.** (1) The Chairperson may recommend to the Minister that an inquiry be held to determine whether a member should be subject to disciplinary or remedial measures for any reason set out in any of paragraphs 43(2)(_a_) to (_d_).

###### Judge to conduct inquiry

###### Powers

(_a_) to issue to any person a summons requiring them to appear at the time
and place mentioned in the summons to testify with respect to all matters
within their knowledge relative to the inquiry and to bring and produce any
thing that they have or control relative to the inquiry; and

(_b_) to administer oaths and examine any person on oath.

###### Inquiry public

###### Confidentiality

###### Confidentiality

###### Rules of evidence

###### Right to be heard

###### Report of inquiry

**43.** (1) After an inquiry has been completed, the judge who conducted the inquiry shall submit a report of the conclusions of the inquiry to the Minister.

###### Recommendations

(_a_) has become incapacitated from the due execution of their office by
reason of infirmity,

(_b_) is guilty of misconduct,

(_c_) has failed in the due execution of their office, or

(_d_) has been placed, by conduct or otherwise, in a position that is
incompatible with the due execution of their office,

###### Governor in Council may suspend or remove

## RULES AND REGULATIONS

###### Rules

**44.** (1) The Board may make rules, not inconsistent with the regulations, governing the proceedings, practice and procedures of the Board.

###### Quorum

###### Regulations

**45.** The Governor in Council may make regulations for carrying the purposes and provisions of this Act into effect, including regulations

(_a_) prescribing the procedure to be followed in respect of applications,
appeals or other matters under this Act;

(_b_) prescribing the information to be provided in connection with an
application or appeal;

(_c_) prescribing the information to be included in the Board’s decisions;

(_d_) governing the giving of notice of the Board’s decisions; and

(_e_) prescribing persons or organizations for the purposes of sections 30 and
37.

## AMENDMENTS TO THE PENSION ACT

**46\. to 76.** [Amendments]

## CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS

**77\. to 104.** [Amendments]

## REPEAL

**105.** [Repeal]

## TRANSITIONAL

###### Members of Veterans Appeal Board cease to hold office

**106.** (1) The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and other members of the Veterans Appeal Board cease to hold office on the day on which this section comes into force.

###### Staff

###### Definition of “employee”

###### Members of Canadian Pension Commission cease to hold office

**107.** (1) The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and other members of the Canadian Pension Commission cease to hold office on the day on which this section comes into force.

###### Staff

###### Definition of “employee”

###### Chief Pensions Advocate ceases to hold office

**108.** (1) The Chief Pensions Advocate appointed pursuant to subsection 18(1) of the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), as it read immediately before the day on which section 47 of this Act comes into force, ceases to hold office on the day on which that section comes into force.

###### Staff

###### Definition of “employee”

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 108;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 94(F).

###### Pending applications for awards

**109.** (1) Applications for awards pending before the Canadian Pension Commission on the day on which section 47 of this Act comes into force shall be transferred to the Minister of Veterans Affairs and dealt with in accordance with the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), as amended by this Act.

###### Pending applications for compassionate awards

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 109;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 94(F).

###### Pending proceedings

**110.** (1) Proceedings pending on the day on which section 73 of this Act comes into force before members of the Canadian Pension Commission or an Entitlement Board under section 87 or 88 of the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), as that Act read immediately before the day on which section 73 of this Act comes into force, shall be taken up and continued under and in conformity with the [Veterans Review and Appeal Board Act](/eng/acts/V-1.6), as enacted by this Act, and the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), as amended by this Act, before a review panel of the Veterans Review and Appeal Board established in accordance with section 19 of the [Veterans Review and Appeal Board Act](/eng/acts/V-1.6).

###### Pending proceedings

###### Reconsideration of decisions of predecessor bodies

**111.** The Veterans Review and Appeal Board may, on its own motion, reconsider any decision of the Veterans Appeal Board, the Pension Review Board, the War Veterans Allowance Board, or an Assessment Board or an Entitlement Board as defined in section 79 of the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), and may either confirm the decision or amend or rescind the decision if it determines that an error was made with respect to any finding of fact or the interpretation of any law, or may, in the case of any decision of the Veterans Appeal Board, the Pension Review Board or the War Veterans Allowance Board, do so on application if new evidence is presented to it.

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 111;
  * 1999, c. 10, s. 41.

###### Transfer of property and moneys in trust

**112.** Any property and moneys conveyed in trust to the Canadian Pension Commission pursuant to section 10 of the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), as it read immediately before the day on which section 47 of this Act comes into force, are on that day transferred to the Minister of Veterans Affairs, and the Minister shall administer the property or moneys in accordance with section 6 of the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), as enacted by section 47 of this Act.

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 112;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 94(F).

###### Transfer of appropriations

**113.** (1) Any amount appropriated, for the fiscal year in which this Act comes into force, by an appropriation Act based on the Estimates for that year, for defraying the charges and expenses of the Veterans Appeal Board or the Canadian Pension Commission and that, on the day on which this section comes into force, is unexpended shall be applied, in such manner as the Treasury Board may determine, to defray the charges and expenses of the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Veterans Review and Appeal Board.

###### Transfer of appropriations

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 113;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 94(F).

## CONDITIONAL PROVISIONS

**114\. to 118.** [Amendments]

## COMING INTO FORCE

###### Coming into force

***119.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), this Act or any of its provisions comes into force on a day or days to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

*[Note: Sections 1 to 113 in force September 15, 1995, _see_ SI/95-108.]

###### Coming into force

  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada

