  * Skip to main content
  * Skip to secondary menu

## Site menu

![Government of Canada](/build/theme-gcwu-fegc/images/sig-eng.gif)

  * [Canada.ca](http://www.canada.ca/en/index.html)
  * [Services](http://www.canada.ca/en/services/index.html)
  * [Departments](http://www.canada.ca/en/gov/dept/index.html)
  * [Français](/scripts/changelanguage.asp)

![Symbol of the Government of Canada](/build/theme-gcwu-fegc/images/wmms.gif)

[Justice Laws Website](/eng)

## Search

Search website

## Site menu

  * ### Family Law

    * [Child Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/child-enfant/index.html)
    * [Divorce and Separation](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/divorce/index.html)
    * [Enforcing Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/enforce-execution/index.html)
    * [Family Justice Services](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/fjs-sjf/index.html)
    * [Custody and Parenting](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/parent/index.html)
    * [Spousal Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/spousal-epoux/index.html)
    * [Publications](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/pub.html)
    * [Provincial and Territorial Contacts](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/pt-tp/index.html)
    * [Contact Us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/contact/index.html)

[Family Law - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/index.html)

  * ### Criminal Justice

    * [Youth Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/yj-jj/index.html)
    * [Victims](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/victims-victimes/index.html)
    * [Family Violence](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/fv-vf/index.html)
    * [Criminal Conviction Review](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ccr-rc/index.html)
    * [Human Trafficking](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/tp/index.html)
    * [War Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/wc-cdg/index.html)
    * [National Security](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ns-sn/index.html)
    * [Extradition and Mutual Legal Assistance](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/emla-eej/index.html)

[Criminal Justice - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/index.html)

  * ### Funding

    * [Aboriginal Communities](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/acf-fca/index.html)
    * [Criminal Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/cj-jp/index.html)
    * [Family Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/famil/index.html)
    * [Justice System and Policy](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/jsp-sjp/index.html)
    * [Funding for Other Levels of Government](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/gov-gouv/index.html)
    * [Apply for Funding](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/form.html)

[Funding - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/index.html)

  * ### Canada's System of Justice

    * [About Canada's System of Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/just/)
    * [Bijuralism and Harmonization](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/harmonization/index.html)
    * [Canada's Court System](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/ccs-ajc/)
    * [Justice in Official Languages](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/franc/index.html)
    * [Legal Dualism and Bilingual Bisystemism](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/dualism-dualisme/index.html)

[Canada's System of Justice - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/)

  * ### Laws

    * [Constitutional Documents](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/Const/Const_index.html)
    * [Acts](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/)
    * [Regulations](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/regulations/)
    * [Search for an Act or Regulation ](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/Search/Search.aspx)

[Laws - More](/eng/)

## Breadcrumb trail

  1. [Home](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng)
  2. [Laws Website Home](/eng)
  3. [Consolidated Acts](/eng/acts/)
  4. [S.C. 1995, c. 18 -  Table of Contents](../index.html)
  5. [ Previous versions](../PITIndex.html)
  6. S.C. 1995, c. 18

[This Web page has been archived on the Web.](/eng/ArchiveNote)

Version of document from 2002-12-31 to 2003-07-01:

# Veterans Review and Appeal Board Act

S.C. 1995, c. 18

Assented to 1995-06-22

An Act to establish the Veterans Review and Appeal Board, to amend the Pension
Act, to make consequential amendments to other Acts and to repeal the Veterans
Appeal Board Act

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of
Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

# SHORT TITLE

###### Marginal note:Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Veterans Review and Appeal Board Act](/eng/acts/V-1.6).

# INTERPRETATION

###### Marginal note:Definitions

**2.** In this Act,

“Board”

« Tribunal »

    

“Board” means the Veterans Review and Appeal Board established by section 4;

“Bureau”

« Bureau »

    

“Bureau” means the Bureau of Pensions Advocates continued by section 6.1 of
the [Department of Veterans Affairs Act](/eng/acts/V-1);

“member”

Version anglaise seulement

    

“member” means a permanent or temporary member of the Board;

“Minister”

« ministre »

    

“Minister” means the Minister of Veterans Affairs or such other member of the
Queen’s Privy Council for Canada as may be designated by the Governor in
Council as the Minister for the purposes of this Act;

“prescribed”

Version anglaise seulement

    

“prescribed” means prescribed by the regulations.

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 2;
  * 2000, c. 34, ss. 94(F), 95(F).

###### Marginal note:Construction

**3.** The provisions of this Act and of any other Act of Parliament or of any regulations made under this or any other Act of Parliament conferring or imposing jurisdiction, powers, duties or functions on the Board shall be liberally construed and interpreted to the end that the recognized obligation of the people and Government of Canada to those who have served their country so well and to their dependants may be fulfilled.

# ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD

###### Marginal note:Establishment of Board

**4.** There is hereby established an independent board, to be known as the Veterans Review and Appeal Board, consisting of not more than twenty-nine permanent members to be appointed by the Governor in Council and such number of temporary members as are appointed in accordance with section 6.

###### Marginal note:Permanent members

  * **5.** (1) A permanent member holds office during good behaviour.

  * ###### Marginal note:Term

(2) A permanent member shall be appointed for a term not exceeding ten years
and is eligible to be reappointed.

###### Marginal note:Temporary members

  * **6.** (1) The Governor in Council may appoint temporary members of the Board whenever, in the opinion of the Governor in Council, the workload of the Board so requires.

  * ###### Marginal note:Tenure

(2) A temporary member holds office during good behaviour.

  * ###### Marginal note:Term

(3) A temporary member shall be appointed for a term not exceeding two years
and is eligible to be reappointed for one additional term.

###### Marginal note:Acting after ceasing to hold office

  * **7.** (1) A person who has resigned or otherwise ceased to hold office as a member may, at the request of the Chairperson, at any time within eight weeks after that event, make or take part in the disposition of any appeal, review, reference or other matter in which the person became engaged while holding that office, and a person performing duties under this subsection is deemed to be a temporary member of the Board.

  * ###### Marginal note:Disposition where member unable to take part

(2) Where a person to whom subsection (1) applies or any other member by whom
a matter has been heard is unable to take part in the disposition of the
matter or has died, the remaining members, if any, who heard the matter may
make the disposition and, for that purpose, are deemed to constitute the
Board.

###### Marginal note:Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson

  * **8.** (1) The Governor in Council shall designate a Chairperson and a Deputy Chairperson from among the permanent members.

  * ###### Marginal note:Chief executive officer

(2) The Chairperson is the chief executive officer of the Board and has
supervision over and direction of the work of the Board including the
allocation of work among its members, the conduct of its work, the management
of its internal affairs and the duties of its staff.

  * ###### Marginal note:Reports

(3) The Chairperson shall make such reports to the Minister as the Minister
may require respecting the use of the resources allocated to the Board.

  * ###### Marginal note:Acting Chairperson

(4) If the Chairperson is absent or unable to act or the office of Chairperson
is vacant, the Deputy Chairperson shall act as Chairperson.

  * ###### Marginal note:Acting Chairperson

(5) If both the Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson are absent or unable to act
or both offices are vacant, a member designated by the Minister shall act as
Chairperson.

###### Marginal note:Full-time occupation

**9.** A member shall perform their duties under this Act on a full-time basis and shall not hold any office or engage in any occupation inconsistent with those duties.

###### Marginal note:Remuneration and allowances

  * **10.** (1) A member shall be paid such remuneration and allowances as may be fixed by the Governor in Council.

  * ###### Marginal note:Travel and living expenses

(2) A member is entitled to be paid reasonable travel and living expenses
incurred by them while absent from their ordinary place of work in connection
with the work of the Board.

###### Marginal note:Presumption

  * **11.** (1) A member is deemed to be an employee for the purposes of the [Government Employees Compensation Act](/eng/acts/G-5) and to be employed in the public service of Canada for the purposes of any regulations made under section 9 of the [Aeronautics Act](/eng/acts/A-2).

  * ###### Marginal note:Presumption

(2) A member is deemed to be employed in the Public Service for the purposes
of the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/eng/acts/P-36).

###### Marginal note:Head office

**12.** The head office of the Board shall be at such place in Canada as the Governor in Council may designate.

###### Marginal note:Officers and employees

**13.** Such officers and employees as are necessary for the proper conduct of the work of the Board shall be appointed in accordance with the [Public Service Employment Act](/eng/acts/P-33.01).

# POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS

###### Marginal note:Powers

**14.** The Board and each member have, with respect to the carrying out of the Board’s duties and functions under this Act, all the powers of a commissioner appointed under Part I of the [Inquiries Act](/eng/acts/I-11).

###### Marginal note:Access to records

**15.** Subject to any other Act of Parliament and any regulations made under any other Act of Parliament, the Board may inspect the records of the Department of Veterans Affairs and all material relating to any proceeding before the Board.

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 15;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 94(F).

###### Marginal note:Additional powers, duties and functions

**16.** The Board shall exercise such powers and shall perform such duties and functions as are conferred or imposed on it by or pursuant to any other Act of Parliament or any order of the Governor in Council.

###### Marginal note:Panels

**17.** Subject to subsections 19(1), 27(1), 34(2) and 44(2), the Chairperson may establish panels of one or more members to exercise any power or perform any duty or function of the Board designated by the Chairperson.

# REVIEW

###### Marginal note:Exclusive jurisdiction

**18.** The Board has full and exclusive jurisdiction to hear, determine and deal with all applications for review that may be made to the Board under the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), and all matters related to those applications.

###### Marginal note:Review panels

  * **19.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), an application for review shall be heard, determined and dealt with by a review panel consisting of not fewer than two members or, with the consent of the applicant, one member designated by the Chairperson.

  * ###### Marginal note:Refusal to establish review panel

(2) The Chairperson, or any member to whom the Chairperson has delegated the
authority, may refuse to establish a review panel to hear an application for
review of a decision concerning the amount of an award under the [Pension
Act](/eng/acts/P-6) if the Chairperson or member, as the case may be,
considers the application to be such that no reasonable review panel could
dispose of it in a manner favourable to the applicant.

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 19;
  * 1999, c. 10, s. 38;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 66(F).

###### Marginal note:Written and oral submissions

**20.** An applicant may make a written submission to the review panel or may appear before it, in person or by a representative, to present evidence and arguments.

###### Marginal note:Disposition of application

**21.** A review panel may

  * (_a_) affirm, vary or reverse the decision of the Minister being reviewed;

  * (_b_) refer any matter back to the Minister for reconsideration; or

  * (_c_) refer any matter not dealt with in the decision back to the Minister for a decision.

###### Marginal note:Decision to be made as soon as possible

  * **22.** (1) A review panel shall make its decision as soon as possible and shall notify the applicant of the decision.

  * ###### Marginal note:Decision of majority

(2) A decision of a majority of the members of a review panel is a decision of
the Board.

  * ###### Marginal note:Absence of majority decision

(3) In the absence of a majority decision, the decision most favourable to the
applicant is the decision of the Board.

###### Marginal note:Reconsideration of decisions

  * **23.** (1) A review panel may, on its own motion, reconsider a decision made by it under section 21 or this section and may either confirm the decision or amend or rescind the decision if it determines that an error was made with respect to any finding of fact or the interpretation of any law.

  * ###### Marginal note:Board may exercise powers

(2) The Board may exercise the powers of a review panel under subsection (1)
if the members of the review panel have ceased to hold office as members.

###### Marginal note:Applicant and witnesses to be paid expenses, etc.

**24.** An applicant and each witness called by an applicant who attends a hearing by a review panel are entitled to be paid

  * (_a_) travel and living expenses incurred in attending the hearing, in accordance with regulations made in relation to veterans health care under subsection 5(1) of the [Department of Veterans Affairs Act](/eng/acts/V-1); and

  * (_b_) in the case of a witness who is a medical practitioner, such attendance fee as may be fixed by the Treasury Board.

  * 1995, c. 17, s. 73, c. 18, s. 24;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 95(F).

###### Marginal note:Appeal

**25.** An applicant who is dissatisfied with a decision made under section 21 or 23 may appeal the decision to the Board.

# APPEALS

###### Marginal note:Exclusive jurisdiction

**26.** The Board has full and exclusive jurisdiction to hear, determine and deal with all appeals that may be made to the Board under section 25 or under the [War Veterans Allowance Act](/eng/acts/W-3) or any other Act of Parliament, and all matters related to those appeals.

###### Marginal note:Appeal panel

  * **27.** (1) An appeal shall be heard, determined and dealt with by an appeal panel consisting of not fewer than three members designated by the Chairperson.

  * ###### Marginal note:Prohibition

(2) A member of a review panel may not sit on an appeal panel that has been
established to hear an appeal of a decision made by that review panel.

###### Marginal note:Written and oral submissions

  * **28.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), an appellant may make a written submission to the appeal panel or may appear before it, in person or by representative and at their own expense, to present evidence and oral arguments.

  * ###### Marginal note:Documented evidence

(2) Only documented evidence may be submitted under subsection (1).

###### Marginal note:Disposition of appeals

  * **29.** (1) An appeal panel may

    * (_a_) affirm, vary or reverse the decision being appealed;

    * (_b_) refer any matter back to the person or review panel that made the decision being appealed for reconsideration, re-hearing or further investigation; or

    * (_c_) refer any matter not dealt with in the decision back to that person or review panel for a decision.

  * ###### Marginal note:Where matter cannot be referred to review panel

(2) Where the members of a review panel have ceased to hold office or for any
other reason a matter cannot be referred to that review panel under paragraph
(1)(_b_) or (_c_), the appeal panel may refer the matter to the Chairperson
who shall establish a new review panel in accordance with subsection 19(1) to
consider, hear, investigate or decide the matter, as the case may be.

###### Marginal note:Questions of interpretation

**30.** Where the appellant raises a question of interpretation relating to this Act, to the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), to any other Act of Parliament pursuant to which an appeal may be taken to the Board or to any regulations made under any such Act and the appeal panel is of the opinion that the question is not trivial, frivolous or vexatious, it shall notify the prescribed persons or organizations and give them an opportunity to present argument on the question before it makes its decision.

###### Marginal note:Decision of majority

**31.** A decision of the majority of members of an appeal panel is a decision of the Board and is final and binding.

###### Marginal note:Reconsideration of decisions

  * **32.** (1) Notwithstanding section 31, an appeal panel may, on its own motion, reconsider a decision made by it under subsection 29(1) or this section and may either confirm the decision or amend or rescind the decision if it determines that an error was made with respect to any finding of fact or the interpretation of any law, or may do so on application if the person making the application alleges that an error was made with respect to any finding of fact or the interpretation of any law or if new evidence is presented to the appeal panel.

  * ###### Marginal note:Board may exercise powers

(2) The Board may exercise the powers of an appeal panel under subsection (1)
if the members of the appeal panel have ceased to hold office as members.

  * ###### Marginal note:Other sections applicable

(3) Sections 28 and 31 apply, with such modifications as the circumstances
require, with respect to an application made under subsection (1).

###### Marginal note:Appeal to Tax Court of Canada

  * **33.** (1) Notwithstanding section 31, an appeal lies to the Tax Court of Canada from any decision of an appeal panel as to income or as to the source of income, for the purposes of the [War Veterans Allowance Act](/eng/acts/W-3) or Part XI of the [Civilian War-related Benefits Act](/eng/acts/C-31), of

    * (_a_) a person or their spouse, or both; or

    * (_b_) a person or their common-law partner, or both.

  * ###### Marginal note:Meaning of “common-law partner”

(2) In paragraph (1)(_b_), “common-law partner” has the same meaning as in
subsection 2(1) of the [War Veterans Allowance Act](/eng/acts/W-3).

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 33;
  * 1999, c. 10, s. 39;
  * 2000, c. 12, s. 315.

# COMPASSIONATE AWARDS

###### Marginal note:Application for compassionate award

  * **34.** (1) A person who has been refused an award under the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6) and who has exhausted all procedures for review or appeal under this Act may apply to the Board for a compassionate award.

  * ###### Marginal note:Panel

(2) An application for a compassionate award shall be heard, determined and
dealt with by a panel consisting of not fewer than three members designated by
the Chairperson.

  * ###### Marginal note:Granting of compassionate award

(3) A panel may grant a compassionate award if it considers the case to be
specially meritorious and the applicant is unqualified to receive an award
under the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6).

  * ###### Marginal note:Amount

(4) The amount of a compassionate award shall be such sum as the panel may
fix, but may not exceed the amount to which the applicant would have been
entitled if the applicant’s claim to an award under the [Pension
Act](/eng/acts/P-6) had been upheld.

  * ###### Marginal note:Review by Minister

(5) The Minister may from time to time vary the amount of a compassionate
award that is subject to being varied in accordance with the applicant’s
dependent condition.

  * ###### Marginal note:Adjustment

(6) The amount of a compassionate award shall be adjusted at the same times
and by the same percentage as the basic pension is adjusted under subsection
75(1) of the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6).

  * ###### Marginal note:Death of recipient

(6.1) On the death of a person to whom a compassionate award has been granted,
the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6) applies in respect of a survivor or surviving
child of that person in the same manner as it would apply if the compassionate
award had been an award within the meaning of that Act.

  * ###### Marginal note:Meaning of “survivor” and “child”

(6.2) In subsection (6.1), “survivor” and “child” have the same meaning as in
the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6).

  * ###### Marginal note:Reconsideration of decisions

(7) The Board may, on its own motion, reconsider a decision made by it under
this section and may either confirm the decision or amend or rescind the
decision if it determines that an error was made with respect to any finding
of fact or the interpretation of any law, or may do so on application if new
evidence is presented to the Board.

  * ###### Marginal note:Definition of “compassionate award”

(8) In this section, “compassionate award” means a compassionate pension,
allowance or supplementary award.

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 34;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 67.

# GENERAL

###### Marginal note:Representation

**35.** In all proceedings under this Act, an applicant or appellant may choose to be represented by a pensions advocate from the Bureau, by a service bureau of a veterans’ organization or, at the person’s own expense, by any other representative of the person’s choice.

###### Marginal note:Place and time of sittings

  * **36.** (1) The Board shall sit at such places in Canada and at such times as may be fixed by the Chairperson, having regard to the convenience of the applicant and the Board.

  * ###### Marginal note:Hearings to be public

(2) Every hearing before the Board shall be open to the public except where
the applicant or appellant requests that the hearing be closed and the Board
is of the opinion that a closed hearing would not be contrary to the public
interest.

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 36;
  * 1999, c. 10, s. 40.

###### Marginal note:Questions of interpretation

  * **37.** (1) The Minister, the Chief Pensions Advocate, any veterans’ organization incorporated by or under an Act of Parliament or any interested person may refer to the Board for hearing and decision any question of interpretation relating to this Act, to the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), to any other Act of Parliament pursuant to which an appeal may be taken to the Board or to any regulations made under any such Act.

  * ###### Marginal note:Notice

(2) Before making a decision on a question referred to it, the Board shall
notify the prescribed persons or organizations and give them an opportunity to
present argument on the question.

  * ###### Marginal note:Refusal to hear trivial questions

(3) The Board may refuse to hear and decide any question referred to it under
this section that it considers to be trivial, frivolous or vexatious.

###### Marginal note:Medical opinion

  * **38.** (1) The Board may obtain independent medical advice for the purposes of any proceeding under this Act and may require an applicant or appellant to undergo any medical examination that the Board may direct.

  * ###### Marginal note:Notification of intention

(2) Before accepting as evidence any medical advice or report on an
examination obtained pursuant to subsection (1), the Board shall notify the
applicant or appellant of its intention to do so and give them an opportunity
to present argument on the issue.

###### Marginal note:Rules of evidence

**39.** In all proceedings under this Act, the Board shall

  * (_a_) draw from all the circumstances of the case and all the evidence presented to it every reasonable inference in favour of the applicant or appellant;

  * (_b_) accept any uncontradicted evidence presented to it by the applicant or appellant that it considers to be credible in the circumstances; and

  * (_c_) resolve in favour of the applicant or appellant any doubt, in the weighing of evidence, as to whether the applicant or appellant has established a case.

###### Marginal note:Expeditious proceedings

**40.** All proceedings before the Board shall be dealt with as informally and expeditiously as the circumstances and considerations of fairness permit.

###### Marginal note:Immunity

**41.** No action or other proceeding lies against any person for or in respect of anything done, reported or said in good faith in any proceedings before the Board or anything reported or said in good faith in any material, information or report made or furnished by any person at the request of the Board.

###### Marginal note:Inquiries

  * **42.** (1) The Chairperson may recommend to the Minister that an inquiry be held to determine whether a member should be subject to disciplinary or remedial measures for any reason set out in any of paragraphs 43(2)(_a_) to (_d_).

  * ###### Marginal note:Judge to conduct inquiry

(2) Where the Minister considers it appropriate that an inquiry be held, a
judge, supernumerary judge or former judge of the Federal Court, in this
section and section 43 referred to as a “judge”, shall conduct the inquiry.

  * ###### Marginal note:Powers

(3) A judge conducting an inquiry has all the powers, rights and privileges
that are vested in a superior court and, without restricting the generality of
the foregoing, has the power

    * (_a_) to issue to any person a summons requiring them to appear at the time and place mentioned in the summons to testify with respect to all matters within their knowledge relative to the inquiry and to bring and produce any thing that they have or control relative to the inquiry; and

    * (_b_) to administer oaths and examine any person on oath.

  * ###### Marginal note:Inquiry public

(4) Subject to subsections (5) and (6), an inquiry shall be conducted in
public.

  * ###### Marginal note:Confidentiality

(5) A judge conducting an inquiry may, on application, take any measures or
make any order that the judge considers necessary to ensure the
confidentiality of the inquiry if the judge is satisfied that financial or
personal or other matters may be disclosed and are of such a nature that the
desirability of avoiding public disclosure of those matters in the interest of
any person affected or in the public interest outweighs the desirability of
adhering to the principle that the inquiry be conducted in public.

  * ###### Marginal note:Confidentiality

(6) Where the judge considers it appropriate to do so, the judge may take any
measures or make any order that the judge considers necessary to ensure the
confidentiality of any hearing held in respect of an application referred to
in subsection (5).

  * ###### Marginal note:Rules of evidence

(7) A judge conducting an inquiry is not bound by any legal or technical rules
of evidence and, in any proceedings of the inquiry, the judge may receive and
base a decision on evidence adduced in the proceedings and considered credible
or trustworthy in the circumstances of the case.

  * ###### Marginal note:Right to be heard

(8) Every member in respect of whom an inquiry is held shall be given
reasonable notice of the subject-matter of the inquiry and of the time and
place of any hearing and shall be given an opportunity, in person or by
counsel, to be heard at the hearing, to cross-examine witnesses and to adduce
evidence.

###### Marginal note:Report of inquiry

  * **43.** (1) After an inquiry has been completed, the judge who conducted the inquiry shall submit a report of the conclusions of the inquiry to the Minister.

  * ###### Marginal note:Recommendations

(2) Where an inquiry has been held and, in the opinion of the judge who
conducted the inquiry, the member in respect of whom the inquiry was held

    * (_a_) has become incapacitated from the due execution of their office by reason of infirmity,

    * (_b_) is guilty of misconduct,

    * (_c_) has failed in the due execution of their office, or

    * (_d_) has been placed, by conduct or otherwise, in a position that is incompatible with the due execution of their office,

the judge may, in the report of the inquiry, recommend that the member be
suspended without pay or removed from office or may recommend that such
remedial measure as the judge considers necessary be taken.

  * ###### Marginal note:Governor in Council may suspend or remove

(3) Where the Minister receives a report under subsection (1), the Minister
shall send a copy of the report to the Governor in Council, who may suspend
the member to whom the report relates without pay, remove the member from
office or take any remedial measure.

# RULES AND REGULATIONS

###### Marginal note:Rules

  * **44.** (1) The Board may make rules, not inconsistent with the regulations, governing the proceedings, practice and procedures of the Board.

  * ###### Marginal note:Quorum

(2) A majority of permanent members in office constitutes a quorum for the
purpose of making rules under subsection (1).

###### Marginal note:Regulations

**45.** The Governor in Council may make regulations for carrying the purposes and provisions of this Act into effect, including regulations

  * (_a_) prescribing the procedure to be followed in respect of applications, appeals or other matters under this Act;

  * (_b_) prescribing the information to be provided in connection with an application or appeal;

  * (_c_) prescribing the information to be included in the Board’s decisions;

  * (_d_) governing the giving of notice of the Board’s decisions; and

  * (_e_) prescribing persons or organizations for the purposes of sections 30 and 37.

# AMENDMENTS TO THE PENSION ACT

**46\. to 76.** [Amendments]

# CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS

**77\. to 104.** [Amendments]

# REPEAL

**105.** [Repeal]

# TRANSITIONAL

###### Marginal note:Members of Veterans Appeal Board cease to hold office

  * **106.** (1) The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and other members of the Veterans Appeal Board cease to hold office on the day on which this section comes into force.

  * ###### Marginal note:Staff

(2) Nothing in this Act shall be construed as affecting the status of an
employee who, immediately before the coming into force of this section,
occupies a position in the Veterans Appeal Board, except that the employee
shall, on the coming into force of this section, occupy their position in the
Veterans Review and Appeal Board under the authority of the Chairperson of
that Board.

  * ###### Marginal note:Definition of “employee”

(3) In this section, “employee” has the same meaning as in subsection 2(1) of
the [Public Service Employment Act](/eng/acts/P-33.01).

###### Marginal note:Members of Canadian Pension Commission cease to hold
office

  * **107.** (1) The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and other members of the Canadian Pension Commission cease to hold office on the day on which this section comes into force.

  * ###### Marginal note:Staff

(2) Nothing in this Act shall be construed as affecting the status of an
employee who, immediately before the coming into force of this section,
occupies a position in the Canadian Pension Commission, except that the
employee shall, on the coming into force of this section, occupy their
position in the Veterans Review and Appeal Board under the authority of the
Chairperson of that Board.

  * ###### Marginal note:Definition of “employee”

(3) In this section, “employee” has the same meaning as in subsection 2(1) of
the [Public Service Employment Act](/eng/acts/P-33.01).

###### Marginal note:Chief Pensions Advocate ceases to hold office

  * **108.** (1) The Chief Pensions Advocate appointed pursuant to subsection 18(1) of the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), as it read immediately before the day on which section 47 of this Act comes into force, ceases to hold office on the day on which that section comes into force.

  * ###### Marginal note:Staff

(2) Nothing in this Act shall be construed as affecting the status of an
employee who, immediately before the coming into force of this section,
occupies a position in the Bureau of Pensions Advocates, except that the
employee shall, on the coming into force of this section, occupy their
position in the Department of Veterans Affairs under the authority of the
Deputy Minister of Veterans Affairs.

  * ###### Marginal note:Definition of “employee”

(3) In this section, “employee” has the same meaning as in subsection 2(1) of
the [Public Service Employment Act](/eng/acts/P-33.01).

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 108;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 94(F).

###### Marginal note:Pending applications for awards

  * **109.** (1) Applications for awards pending before the Canadian Pension Commission on the day on which section 47 of this Act comes into force shall be transferred to the Minister of Veterans Affairs and dealt with in accordance with the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), as amended by this Act.

  * ###### Marginal note:Pending applications for compassionate awards

(2) Applications made under section 33 of the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), as
it read immediately before the day on which section 53 of this Act comes into
force, that are pending before the Canadian Pension Commission on the day on
which that section comes into force shall be transferred to the Veterans
Review and Appeal Board and dealt with in accordance with section 34 of the
[Veterans Review and Appeal Board Act](/eng/acts/V-1.6), as enacted by this
Act.

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 109;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 94(F).

###### Marginal note:Pending proceedings

  * **110.** (1) Proceedings pending on the day on which section 73 of this Act comes into force before members of the Canadian Pension Commission or an Entitlement Board under section 87 or 88 of the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), as that Act read immediately before the day on which section 73 of this Act comes into force, shall be taken up and continued under and in conformity with the [Veterans Review and Appeal Board Act](/eng/acts/V-1.6), as enacted by this Act, and the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), as amended by this Act, before a review panel of the Veterans Review and Appeal Board established in accordance with section 19 of the [Veterans Review and Appeal Board Act](/eng/acts/V-1.6).

  * ###### Marginal note:Pending proceedings

(2) Proceedings pending before the Veterans Appeal Board on the day on which
section 105 of this Act comes into force shall be taken up and continued under
and in conformity with the [Veterans Review and Appeal Board
Act](/eng/acts/V-1.6), as enacted by this Act, and the [Pension
Act](/eng/acts/P-6), as amended by this Act, before an appeal panel of the
Veterans Review and Appeal Board established in accordance with section 27 of
the [Veterans Review and Appeal Board Act](/eng/acts/V-1.6).

###### Marginal note:Reconsideration of decisions of predecessor bodies

**111.** The Veterans Review and Appeal Board may, on its own motion, reconsider any decision of the Veterans Appeal Board, the Pension Review Board, the War Veterans Allowance Board, or an Assessment Board or an Entitlement Board as defined in section 79 of the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), and may either confirm the decision or amend or rescind the decision if it determines that an error was made with respect to any finding of fact or the interpretation of any law, or may, in the case of any decision of the Veterans Appeal Board, the Pension Review Board or the War Veterans Allowance Board, do so on application if new evidence is presented to it.

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 111;
  * 1999, c. 10, s. 41.

###### Marginal note:Transfer of property and moneys in trust

**112.** Any property and moneys conveyed in trust to the Canadian Pension Commission pursuant to section 10 of the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), as it read immediately before the day on which section 47 of this Act comes into force, are on that day transferred to the Minister of Veterans Affairs, and the Minister shall administer the property or moneys in accordance with section 6 of the [Pension Act](/eng/acts/P-6), as enacted by section 47 of this Act.

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 112;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 94(F).

###### Marginal note:Transfer of appropriations

  * **113.** (1) Any amount appropriated, for the fiscal year in which this Act comes into force, by an appropriation Act based on the Estimates for that year, for defraying the charges and expenses of the Veterans Appeal Board or the Canadian Pension Commission and that, on the day on which this section comes into force, is unexpended shall be applied, in such manner as the Treasury Board may determine, to defray the charges and expenses of the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Veterans Review and Appeal Board.

  * ###### Marginal note:Transfer of appropriations

(2) Any amount appropriated, for the fiscal year in which this Act comes into
force, by an appropriation Act based on the Estimates for that year, for
defraying the charges and expenses of the Bureau of Pensions Advocates and
that, on the day on which this section comes into force, is unexpended shall
be applied, in such manner as the Treasury Board may determine, to defray the
charges and expenses of the Department of Veterans Affairs.

  * 1995, c. 18, s. 113;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 94(F).

# CONDITIONAL PROVISIONS

**114\. to 118.** [Amendments]

# COMING INTO FORCE

###### Marginal note:Coming into force

  * **Footnote *119.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), this Act or any of its provisions comes into force on a day or days to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

    * Return to footnote *[Note: Sections 1 to 113 in force September 15, 1995, _see_ SI/95-108.]

  * ###### Marginal note:Coming into force

(2) Sections 114 to 118 come into force on the day on which this Act is
assented to.

  * Veterans Review and Appeal Board Act
    * 1 - SHORT TITLE
    * 2 - INTERPRETATION
    * 4 - ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD
    * 14 - POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS
    * 18 - REVIEW
    * 26 - APPEALS
    * 34 - COMPASSIONATE AWARDS
    * 35 - GENERAL
    * 44 - RULES AND REGULATIONS
    * 46\. to 76 - AMENDMENTS TO THE PENSION ACT
    * 77\. to 104 - CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS
    * 105 - REPEAL
    * 106 - TRANSITIONAL
    * 114\. to 118 - CONDITIONAL PROVISIONS
    * 119 - COMING INTO FORCE

Date modified:

    2015-06-04

## Secondary menu

### Laws

  * [Constitutional Documents](/eng/Const/Const_index.html)
  * [Consolidated Acts](/eng/acts/)
  * [Consolidated Regulations](/eng/regulations/)
  * [Annual Statutes](/eng/AnnualStatutes/index.html)
  * [Statutes Repeal Act: Reports and Repeals](/eng/Reports/)
  * [Miscellaneous Statute Law Amendment Program](/eng/MSLA/)

### Search

  * [Basic Search](/Search/Search.aspx)
  * [Advanced Search](/Search/Advanced.aspx)

### Resources

  * [Table of Public Statutes and Responsible Ministers](/eng/TablePublicStatutes/index.html)
  * [Table of Private Acts](/eng/TablePrivateActs/index.html)
  * [Consolidated Index of Statutory Instruments](/eng/IndexStatutoryInstruments)
  * [Related Resources](/eng/RelatedResources)

### Help

  * [Accessibility](/eng/Accessibility)
  * [FAQ](/eng/FAQ)
  * [General](/eng/GeneralHelp)
  * [Search Help](/eng/SearchHelp)
  * [PDF Help](/eng/PDFHelp)
  * [How to Create Stable Links](/eng/LinkingGuide)
  * [Printing](/eng/Printing)
  * [Glossary](/eng/Glossary)
  * [Important Note](/eng/ImportantNote)

## Footer

### Site footer

  * [Terms and conditions](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/terms-avis/index.html)
  * [Transparency](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/trans/index.html)

#### [Contact us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/index.html)

  * [Policy on Legal Assistance](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm4.html)
  * [Service on the Crown ](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm3.html)
  * [Guide to Canadian Legal Information](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm2.html)
  * [Help](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/help-aide.html)
  * [Helpful Links](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/link-lien.html)

#### [About us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/index.html)

  * [The Minister and Attorney General](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/mag-mpg.html)
  * [Organization](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/org.html)
  * [Acts and Regulations](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/trans/ar-lr/index.html)
  * [Careers and Articling ](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/recru/index.html)
  * [Reports and Publications](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/rp-pr/index.html)
  * [Sustainable Development](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/sd-dd/index.html)

#### [News](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/index.html)

  * [News Releases](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=1&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=26&crtr.mnthStrtVl=2&crtr.yrStrtVl=2008&crtr.dyndVl=31&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Backgrounders](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=930&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=26&crtr.mnthStrtVl=2&crtr.yrStrtVl=2008&crtr.dyndVl=27&crtr.mnthndVl=3&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Judicial Appointments](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/ja-nj.asp?tid=4)
  * [Speeches](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=970&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=21&crtr.mnthStrtVl=1&crtr.yrStrtVl=2002&crtr.dyndVl=21&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Media Notices](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=3&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=9&crtr.mnthStrtVl=1&crtr.yrStrtVl=2012&crtr.dyndVl=9&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Photo Gallery](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/photo/index.html)

#### [Stay connected](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/connect-branches.html)

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [RSS](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/rss.html)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/user/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [Public Consultations](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cons/index.html)

### Government of Canada footer

  * [Health](http://healthycanadians.gc.ca/index-eng.php)
  * [Travel](http://www.travel.gc.ca/index-eng.asp)
  * [Service Canada](http://www.servicecanada.gc.ca/eng/home.shtml)
  * [Jobs](http://www.jobbank.gc.ca/intro-eng.aspx)
  * [Economy](http://actionplan.gc.ca/eng/index.asp)
  * [Canada.ca](http://www.canada.ca/en/index.html)

![DCSIMG](//j1.justice.gc.ca/dcs7902nd5ihvq0jmbpwr0wnu_8j4x/njs.gif?dcsuri=/no
javascript&WT.js=No&WT.tv=9.4.0&dcssip=www.laws-lois.justice.gc.ca)

  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada

