#  Translation Bureau Act

R.S.C.  , 1985, c. T-16

An Act respecting the Translation Bureau

#  SHORT TITLE

######  Marginal note:  Short title

** 1\.  **  This Act may be cited as the  [ Translation Bureau Act ](/eng/acts/T-16) . 

  * R.S., c. T-13, s. 1. 

#  INTERPRETATION

######  Marginal note:  Definition of "Minister"

** 2\.  **  In this Act,  “Minister”  means such member of the Queen’s Privy Council for Canada as is designated by the Governor in Council as the Minister for the purposes of this Act. 

  * R.S., 1985, c. T-16, s. 2; 
  * 1996, c. 16, s. 57. 

#  ESTABLISHMENT OF TRANSLATION BUREAU

######  Marginal note:  Bureau established

** 3\.  **  There is hereby established a bureau under the authority of the Minister called the Translation Bureau. 

  * R.S., c. T-13, s. 3. 

#  DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF BUREAU

######  Marginal note:  Duties and functions of Bureau

  * ** 4\.  **  (1) The Bureau shall collaborate with and act for all departments, boards, agencies and commissions established by Act of Parliament or appointed by order of the Governor in Council and collaborate with and act for both Houses of Parliament in all matters relating to the making and revising of translations from one language into another of documents, including correspondence, reports, proceedings, debates, bills and Acts, and to interpretation, sign-language interpretation and terminology. 

  * ######  Marginal note:  Departments to collaborate 

(2) All departments, boards, agencies and commissions referred to in
subsection (1) shall collaborate with the Bureau in carrying into effect this
Act and the regulations.

  * R.S., 1985, c. T-16, s. 4; 
  * R.S., 1985, c. 1 (4th Supp.), s. 34. 

#  PERSONNEL

** 5\.  **    [Repealed, 1996, c. 16, s. 58] 

######  Marginal note:  Officers and employees

** 6\.  **  Such officers, translators, clerks or other employees as are necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the Bureau may be appointed under the  [ Public Service Employment Act ](/eng/acts/P-33.01) to hold office during pleasure. 

  * R.S., 1985, c. T-16, s. 6; 
  * 1996, c. 16, s. 59(E). 

#  REGULATIONS

######  Marginal note:  Regulations

** 7\.  **  The Minister may, with the approval of the Governor in Council, make all regulations that the Minister deems necessary or expedient for carrying this Act into effect. 

  * R.S., c. T-13, s. 6. 
  *[
  R.S.C.

 ]: Revised Statutes of Canada

