# Cooperative Energy Act

S.C. 1980-81-82-83, c. 108

Assented to 1982-07-07

An Act to establish the Cooperative Energy Corporation and the Cooperative
Energy Development Corporation

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of
Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

## SHORT TITLE

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Cooperative Energy Act](/eng/acts/C-41.5).

## INTERPRETATION

###### Definitions

**2.** (1) In this Act,

(_a_) any organization incorporated, continued or organized by or pursuant to
an Act of Parliament or of the legislature of a province as a cooperative or a
cooperative society, association or federation, including, without limiting
the generality of the foregoing,

(i) a wheat pool, a grain trading cooperative or an agricultural product
trading cooperative, and

(ii) a local cooperative credit society, central cooperative credit society or
federation of cooperative credit societies,

(_b_) a financial service corporation or an insurance corporation,
incorporated by or pursuant to an Act of Parliament or of the legislature of a
province, the principal purpose of which is to provide financial services to,
or to insure, cooperatives and members of cooperatives, and

(_c_) any corporation, incorporated by or pursuant to an Act of Parliament or
of the legislature of a province, all of the issued shares of which, other
than the minimum number of shares of the corporation, if any, that are
required to be held by directors thereof, are owned by cooperatives;

###### Words and expressions

  * 1980-81-82-83, c. 108, s. 2;
  * 1994, c. 41, s. 37.

## PART ICOOPERATIVE ENERGY CORPORATION

###### Cooperative Energy Corporation incorporated

**3.** (1) A corporation is hereby incorporated, to be known as the “Cooperative Energy Corporation” in English and “Société coopérative de l’énergie” in French.

###### Dissolution of Corporation

###### Express authorization to use word “cooperative”

**4.** (1) The Corporation may use the words “cooperative” and “co-op” or either of them or any abbreviation or derivation of either of them as part of its corporate name or in any other manner in connection with the conduct of its business during such period of time as there are no holders of any class of shares of the Corporation, other than

(_a_) cooperatives; or

(_b_) cooperatives and Her Majesty in right of Canada as represented by the
Minister.

###### Authorization to use word “Société”

###### Capitalization

**5.** The classes of shares that the Corporation is authorized to issue and the rights, privileges, restrictions and conditions attaching to each such class of shares are set out in the schedule.

###### Partly paid shares permitted

**6.** Shares of a class of the Corporation may be issued as partly paid or with no payment having been made thereon, on the terms of payment determined by the directors of the Corporation, if the rights, privileges, restrictions and conditions attaching to the shares of that class so provide.

###### First directors

**7.** (1) The first directors of the Corporation shall be such persons as may be appointed by the Governor in Council.

###### Idem

###### Application of [Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44)

**8.** (1) Except where inconsistent with this Act, the [Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44) and any regulations made thereunder apply to the Corporation, with such modifications as the circumstances require, as if it were a corporation incorporated under that Act.

###### Articles of incorporation

###### Agreement is unanimous shareholder agreement

###### Issue of certain certificates conditional on Act of Parliament

**9.** No certificate of amendment, restated certificate of incorporation or certificate of amalgamation, in relation to the Corporation, shall be issued by the Director pursuant to the [Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44), unless an Act of Parliament expressly authorizes the Director to issue the certificate.

###### [Canada Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-1.8) not applicable

**10.** Part IV of the [Canada Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-1.8) does not apply to the Corporation.

###### Not agent of Her Majesty

**11.** The Corporation is not an agent of Her Majesty, or a Crown Corporation within the meaning of the [Financial Administration Act](/eng/acts/F-11), and its officers and employees are not part of the public service of Canada.

## PART IICOOPERATIVE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION

###### Cooperative Energy Development Corporation incorporated

**12.** (1) A corporation is hereby incorporated, to be known as the “Cooperative Energy Development Corporation” in English and “Société coopérative de développement énergétique” in French.

###### Dissolution of Development Corporation

###### Express authorization to use word “cooperative”

**13.** (1) The Development Corporation may use the words “cooperative” and “co-op” or either of them or any abbreviation or derivation of either of them as part of its corporate name or in any other manner in connection with the conduct of its business during such period of time as the Corporation is

(_a_) authorized pursuant to this Act to use those words as part of its
corporate name; and

(_b_) the sole holder of all of the issued and outstanding shares of the
Development Corporation of the class referred to in subparagraph
14(4)(_b_)(i).

###### Authorization to use the word “Société”

###### Filing of articles of incorporation

***14.** (1) Any two of the first directors of the Corporation shall, within one hundred and eighty days after this Part comes into force, sign and send to the Director, in respect of the Development Corporation, articles of incorporation in accordance with subsection (4) and section 6 of the [Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44).

*[Note: Part II in force July 9, 1982, _see_ SI/82-148.]

###### Effect of articles of incorporation

###### Idem

*[Note: Part II in force July 9, 1982, _see_ SI/82-148.]

###### Mandatory rights, privileges, restrictions and conditions

(_a_) provide for the restrictions that are permitted under paragraphs
15(1)(_a_) and (_b_); and

(_b_) provide

(i) that one of the classes of shares shall not be issued to, transferred to
or registered on the books of the Development Corporation in the name of, or
owned or held legally or beneficially by any person other than the
Corporation, and

(ii) that the Corporation, as the holder of the class of shares referred to in
subparagraph (i), has the exclusive right, voting separately as a class, to
elect a majority of the directors of the Development Corporation.

###### Constraints on shares

**15.** (1) Whether or not any of the issued shares of the Development Corporation are or were part of a distribution to the public and remain outstanding and are held by more than one person, the Development Corporation may have a restriction on the issue, transfer or ownership of its shares of any class or series by way of a constraint permitted under section 168 of the [Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44) or by way of a constraint on the issue, transfer or ownership of shares of any class or series in order to

(_a_) limit the maximum aggregate number of shares of any class or series of
voting shares of the Development Corporation that may be beneficially owned or
controlled, directly or indirectly, by any person and by any person who is an
affiliate or associate of that person to such percentage, not lower than three
per cent, as is specified in its articles, of the aggregate number of issued
and outstanding voting shares of that class or series; or

(_b_) assist the Development Corporation or any of its affiliates or
associates to qualify under

to receive licences, permits, grants, payments or other benefits by reason of
attaining or maintaining a specified level of Canadian ownership or control.

(i) any law of Canada or a province prescribed by the regulations for the
purposes of this paragraph, or

(ii) a law of Canada respecting petroleum incentives prescribed by the
regulations for the purposes of this paragraph or, where no such law is so
prescribed, a document entitled “Proposed Outline For Regulations Respecting
The Petroleum Incentives Program”, published under the authority of the
Minister in April, 1982,

###### Exception in respect of paragraph (1)(_a_) or (_b_)

(_a_) in the case of a constraint in respect of a class, the shares of the
class, or

(_b_) in the case of a constraint in respect of a series, the shares of the
series

###### Limitation on ownership of shares

###### Application of subsections (2) and (3), paragraph (1)(_b_) and section
16

###### Sale of constrained shares

(_a_) for that purpose, or, in the case of a constraint permitted under
paragraph (1)(_b_), for the purpose of attaining or maintaining a level of
Canadian ownership or control specified in its articles, and

(_b_) under such conditions and after giving such notice, in respect of the
sale of constrained shares, as may be prescribed pursuant to the [Canada
Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44) or, where no such condition or
notice is so prescribed, after giving the notice referred to in its articles
and on the condition that the constrained shares are not disposed of in
accordance with the notice,

###### Obligations of directors in sale

###### Effect of sale

###### Subsections 47(4) to (6) of the [Canada Business Corporations
Act](/eng/acts/C-44) apply

###### Proceeds of sale to be trust fund

###### Costs of administration

###### Appointment of trust company

###### Discharge of corporation and trust company

###### Vesting in Crown

###### [Escheats Act](/eng/acts/E-13) applies

###### Application of subsections (6) to (14)

(_a_) a sale of shares pursuant to subsection (5), and

(_b_) the proceeds of such sale

###### Amendments to articles relating to constraints on shares

**16.** Whether or not any of the issued shares of the Development Corporation are or were part of a distribution to the public and remain outstanding and are held by more than one person, the Development Corporation may, by special resolution, amend its articles to constrain the issue, transfer or ownership of its shares of any class or series as permitted under

(_a_) section 168 of the [Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44);
or

(_b_) section 15.

###### First directors

**17.** (1) The first directors of the Development Corporation shall be such persons as may be appointed by the directors of the Corporation.

###### Idem

###### Application of [Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44)

**18.** Except to the extent that they are inconsistent with or excluded by this Act, the provisions of the [Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44) and any regulations made thereunder apply to the Development Corporation, with such modifications as the circumstances require, as if it were a corporation incorporated under that Act.

###### Act continues to apply on amalgamation, etc.

**19.** For greater certainty, where a certificate of amendment, restated certificate of incorporation, certificate of amalgamation or certificate of revival, in relation to the Development Corporation, is issued by the Director pursuant to the [Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44), this Part,

(_a_) in the case of a certificate of amalgamation, applies to the amalgamated
corporation as if it were the Development Corporation; and

(_b_) in the case of any certificate referred to in this section, other than a
certificate of amalgamation, continues to apply to the Development
Corporation.

###### [Canada Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-1.8) not applicable

**20.** Part IV of the [Canada Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-1.8) does not apply to the Development Corporation.

###### Not agent of Her Majesty

**21.** The Development Corporation is not an agent of Her Majesty, or a Crown Corporation within the meaning of the [Financial Administration Act](/eng/acts/F-11), and its officers and employees are not part of the public service of Canada.

## PART IIIGENERAL

###### Corporation and Development Corporation qualified as members of
cooperative associations

**22.** Notwithstanding the [Cooperative Credit Associations Act](/eng/acts/C-41.01), the Corporation and the Development Corporation are qualified to become members of an association to which the [Cooperative Credit Associations Act](/eng/acts/C-41.01) applies.

###### Application to Crown

**23.** This Act is binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada and any agent thereof.

###### Acquisition of shares by Her Majesty

**24.** The Minister, on behalf of Her Majesty in right of Canada, may subscribe for, acquire and hold shares and Equity Debentures of the Corporation in accordance with the Agreement and may, for that purpose, make payments out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund in an amount not exceeding in the aggregate one hundred million dollars.

###### Regulations

**25.** The Governor in Council may make regulations prescribing anything that is by this Act to be prescribed by the regulations.

###### Amendments to Agreement referred to Committee of House of Commons

**26.** Any amendment to the Agreement shall be deemed to be referred, for review and report, to the first sitting of the Committee of the House of Commons that normally considers oil and gas matters, following the day on which the amendment is made.

###### Coming into force

***27.** This Act or any provision thereof shall come into force on a day or days to be fixed by proclamation.

*[Note: Act in force July 9, 1982, _see_ SI/82-148.]

## SCHEDULE(Section 5)ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OF THE CORPORATION

###### Name of the Corporation

###### PART IATTRIBUTES OF SHARES OF THE CORPORATION

###### Unlimited number of authorized shares

###### Class A Shares

###### Restrictions

**3.** (1) The right to issue, transfer or own Class A Shares is restricted in the manner set out in this schedule.

###### Idem

###### Idem

###### Voting rights

**4.** (1) Each holder of a Class A Share is entitled to receive notice of and to attend all meetings of shareholders of the Corporation, except class meetings of other classes of shareholders.

###### Idem

###### Representatives

###### Issuance as fully paid

**5.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), a Class A Share shall not be issued until the consideration for the share is fully paid.

###### Partly paid converted shares

###### Application of section 24

###### Rights to participate

###### Special provisions on dissolution

###### First lien on shares

**8.** (1) The Corporation has a first and preferential lien on all Class A Shares, whether fully paid or partly paid, registered in the name of a shareholder or the legal representative of that shareholder for any amount unpaid by that shareholder to the Corporation in respect of partly paid shares or Equity Debentures issued by the Corporation.

###### Enforcement of lien

###### Class B Shares

###### Restrictions

**9.** (1) The right to issue, transfer or own Class B Shares is restricted in the manner set out in this schedule.

###### Idem

###### Voting rights

**10.** (1) Each holder of a Class B Share is entitled to receive notice of and to attend all meetings of shareholders of the Corporation, except class meetings of other classes of shareholders.

###### Idem

###### Representatives

###### Issuance as fully paid

###### Rights to participate

###### Special provisions on dissolution

###### Class C Shares

###### Restrictions

###### Issuance

###### Ownership

###### Voting rights

###### Rights to participate

###### Conversion

###### First lien on shares

**20.** (1) The Corporation has a first and preferential lien on all Class C Shares, registered in the name of a shareholder that is a cooperative or the legal representative of that shareholder for any amount unpaid by that shareholder to the Corporation in respect of partly paid shares or Equity Debentures issued by the Corporation.

###### Enforcement of lien

###### Class D Shares

###### Restrictions

###### Idem

###### Voting rights

###### Issuance as Partly Paid

**24.** (1) Class D Shares may be issued as fully paid or as partly paid or with no payment having been made thereon, in the discretion of the directors of the Corporation, on the terms of payment determined by the directors of the Corporation.

###### Demand for payment

###### Idem

###### Interest

###### Forfeiture of unpaid securities

###### Disposition of unpaid securities

###### Liability of shareholders

###### Excess on sale of forfeited securities

(_a_) the full amount unpaid on the securities at the time of forfeiture
together with interest thereon calculated in accordance with subsection (4);
and

(_b_) any taxes thereon and any costs of administration of a trust fund
constituted in relation thereto.

###### Application of certain subsections

subject to any provisions in respect of the sale of constrained shares set out
in, or prescribed pursuant to, the [Canada Business Corporations
Act](/eng/acts/C-44).

(_a_) in respect of a person who is entitled under subsection (8) to receive a
portion of the proceeds of a sale of securities of the Corporation under
subsection (6), and

(_b_) to such portion of the proceeds,

###### Right of action

###### Definition

###### Rights to participate

###### Conversion

###### First lien on shares

**27.** (1) The Corporation has a first and preferential lien on all Class D Shares, whether fully paid or partly paid, registered in the name of a shareholder that is a cooperative or the legal representative of that shareholder for any amount unpaid by that shareholder to the Corporation in respect of partly paid shares or Equity Debentures issued by the Corporation.

###### Enforcement of lien

###### Special Provisions

Definition of “insolvency”

**28.** (1) In this section and section 29 of this schedule, “insolvency” means, in relation to the Corporation, that

(_a_) the liabilities of the Corporation exceed the realizable value of its
assets; or

(_b_) the Corporation is unable to pay its debts as they become due.

###### Special provisions on dissolution

(_a_) first, fifty per cent of the aggregate amount subscribed, except
premiums, by holders of Class A Shares or their predecessors in title in
respect of their Class A Shares, for shares of all classes and Equity
Debentures of the Corporation shall be returned to holders of Class A Shares
from the capital of the Corporation as and when the capital is paid in and
available for distribution and regardless of the class of shares or Equity
Debentures in respect of which, or by whom, it has been paid,

but no such holder shall receive an amount in excess of the aggregate amount
it has paid in respect of its subscriptions for shares of all classes and
Equity Debentures of the Corporation;

(i) prorated among such holders on the basis of the percentage of Class A
Shares held by each such holder, and

(ii) in amounts not exceeding a maximum returned amount of fifty per cent of
the aggregate amount so subscribed by such holders,

(_b_) secondly, after the payment in full of fifty per cent of the aggregate
amount subscribed by holders of Class A Shares is made in accordance with
paragraph (_a_), thirty-five per cent of the aggregate amount subscribed by
holders of Class B Shares for shares of all classes and Equity Debentures of
the Corporation shall be returned to the holders of Class B Shares from the
capital of the Corporation as and when the capital is paid in and available
for distribution and regardless of the class of shares or Equity Debentures in
respect of which, or by whom, it has been paid, in amounts not exceeding a
maximum returned amount of thirty-five per cent of the aggregate amount so
subscribed by such holders;

(_c_) thirdly, after the payment in full of thirty-five per cent of the
aggregate amount subscribed by holders of Class B Shares is made in accordance
with paragraph (_b_), any balance then or from time to time subsequently
available for distribution to shareholders shall be distributed in the
following manner:

(i) on a share for share basis, in respect of Class A Shares and Class B
Shares, as if such classes were the same in all respects, with distributions
being made concurrently on Class A Shares and Class B Shares as payments are
made in respect of Class A Shares, until such time as all of the holders of
Class A Shares have received the aggregate amount subscribed by them or their
predecessors in title for shares of all classes and Equity Debentures of the
Corporation, except premiums,

(ii) subsequently, to Her Majesty in right of Canada as represented by the
Minister, until such time as the aggregate amount subscribed by Her Majesty in
right of Canada for shares of all classes and Equity Debentures of the
Corporation has been received, and

(iii) finally, on a share for share basis, in respect of Class A Shares and
Class B Shares of the Corporation as if such classes were the same in all
respects.

###### Idem

###### Exceptions

###### Conversion of Class C and Class D Shares and Equity Debentures

**29.** (1) On the earlier of

(in this section, referred to as the “conversion date”) all issued and
outstanding Class C Shares, Class D Shares and Equity Debentures of the
Corporation held by holders of Class A Shares of the Corporation shall be
automatically converted into Class A Shares and all issued and outstanding
Class C Shares, Class D Shares and Equity Debentures of the Corporation held
by holders of Class B Shares of the Corporation shall be automatically
converted into Class B Shares in accordance with subsection (2).

(_a_) the expiration of five years from the first issuance by the Corporation
of any of its shares, and

(_b_) the commencement of a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the
Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, or the occurrence of the
insolvency or bankruptcy of the Corporation,

###### Number of shares to be issued on conversion

###### Surrender of share certificates

###### Automatic conversion

###### PART IIGENERAL

###### Directors

###### Registered Office

  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada

