# Marriage (Prohibited Degrees) Act

S.C. 1990, c. 46

Assented to 1990-12-17

An Act respecting the laws prohibiting marriage between related persons

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Marriage (Prohibited Degrees) Act](/canada/eng/acts/M/M-2.1.md).

###### No prohibition

**2.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), persons related by consanguinity, affinity or adoption are not prohibited from marrying each other by reason only of their relationship.

###### Prohibition

(2) No person shall marry another person if they are related lineally, or as brother or sister or half-brother or half-sister, including by adoption.

  * 1990, c. 46, s. 2;
  * 2005, c. 33, s. 13.

###### Marriage not invalid

**3.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), a marriage between persons related by consanguinity, affinity or adoption is not invalid by reason only of their relationship.

###### Marriage void

(2) A marriage between persons who are related in the manner described in subsection 2(2) is void.

  * 1990, c. 46, s. 3;
  * 2005, c. 33, s. 14.

###### Complete code

**4.** This Act contains all of the prohibitions in law in Canada against marriage by reason of the parties being related.

**5.** [Repeal]

###### Commencement

**(*)6.** This Act shall come into force on the day that is one year after the day it is assented to, or on such earlier day in any province as may be fixed by order of the Governor in Council at the request of that province.

  * (*)[Note: Act in force December 17, 1991.]
  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada
