# Ministries and Ministers of State Act

R.S.C., 1985, c. M-8

An Act to provide for the establishment of Ministries of State and the appointment of Ministers of State

## SHORT TITLE

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Ministries and Ministers of State Act](/canada/eng/acts/M/M-8.md).

  * R.S., c. 14(2nd Supp.), s. 13.

## MINISTRIES OF STATE FOR SPECIFIED PURPOSES

###### Establishment of ministries of State

**2.** Where it appears to the Governor in Council that the requirements for formulating and developing new and comprehensive policies in relation to any matter or matters coming within the responsibility of the Government of Canada warrant the establishment of a special portion of the public service of Canada presided over by a minister charged with responsibility for the formulation and development of such policies, the Governor in Council may, by proclamation, establish a ministry of State for that purpose.

  * R.S., c. 14(2nd Supp.), s. 14.

###### Proclamation

**3.** A proclamation establishing a ministry of State shall

  * (_a_) state the name of the ministry;

  * (_b_) specify the matter or matters in relation to which the minister for the ministry is to formulate and develop policies; and

  * (_c_) specify the powers, duties and functions to be assigned to the minister for the ministry in relation to the formulation and development of those policies.

  * R.S., c. 14(2nd Supp.), s. 15.

###### Variations

**4.** The Governor in Council may, by proclamation, change the name of a ministry of State or vary any matter set out in the proclamation establishing the ministry.

  * R.S., c. 14(2nd Supp.), s. 16.

###### Termination

**5.** The Governor in Council may, by proclamation, terminate the existence of a ministry of State.

  * R.S., c. 14(2nd Supp.), s. 17.

###### Tabling

**6.** (1) An order in council authorizing the issuance of a proclamation under section 2 or 4 shall not be made until the proposed text of the order in council has been laid before the House of Commons by a member of the Queen’s Privy Council for Canada and the making of the order in council has been approved by a resolution of the House of Commons.

###### Opportunity for debate

(2) Where the proposed text of an order in council has been laid before the House of Commons pursuant to subsection (1), a motion in the House of Commons proposed by a member of the Queen’s Privy Council for Canada in accordance with the rules of the House, praying that the making of the order in council be approved, shall be debated in the House for not more than seven hours, after which time the question shall be decided in accordance with the rules of the House.

  * R.S., c. 14(2nd Supp.), s. 18.

## MINISTERS OF STATE FOR MINISTRIES OF STATE

###### Ministers of State for ministries of State

**7.** (1) Over each ministry of State established pursuant to section 2, a minister of State for that ministry appointed by commission under the Great Seal shall preside.

###### Idem

(2) The minister of State for a ministry of State holds office during pleasure and has the management and direction of the ministry.

  * R.S., c. 14(2nd Supp.), s. 19.

###### Secretary

**8.** The Governor in Council may appoint an officer called a Secretary to hold office during pleasure and to be the chief executive officer of a ministry of State.

  * R.S., c. 14(2nd Supp.), s. 20.

###### Powers, duties and functions of minister

**9.** In addition to the powers, duties and functions specified in the proclamation establishing a ministry of State, the powers, duties and functions of the minister for that ministry extend to and include such other matters as are assigned or transferred to the minister or the ministry by or pursuant to any Act of Parliament.

  * R.S., c. 14(2nd Supp.), s. 21.

###### Annual report

**10.** The minister for a ministry of State shall, on or before the 31st day of January next following the end of each fiscal year or, if Parliament is not then sitting, on any of the first five days next thereafter that either House of Parliament is sitting, submit to Parliament a report showing the operations for that fiscal year of the ministry over which he presides.

  * R.S., c. 14(2nd Supp.), s. 22.

## OTHER MINISTERS OF STATE

###### Appointment

**11.** (1) A minister of State appointed by commission under the Great Seal, other than a minister who presides over a ministry of State, may be assigned by the Governor in Council to assist any minister or ministers having responsibilities for any department or other portion of the public service of Canada in the carrying out of those responsibilities.

###### Powers, duties and functions

(2) A minister of State referred to in subsection (1) shall exercise or perform such of the powers, duties or functions of any minister or ministers having responsibilities for any department or other portion of the public service of Canada as may be assigned or transferred to him pursuant to any Act of Parliament.

  * R.S., c. 14(2nd Supp.), s. 23.

###### Services and facilities

**12.** A minister of State referred to in section 11, in providing the assistance or in exercising or performing the powers, duties or functions mentioned therein, shall make use of the services and facilities of the department or portion of the public service of Canada concerned.

  * R.S., c. 14(2nd Supp.), s. 24.
  *[R.S.C.]: Revised Statutes of Canada
