  * Skip to main content
  * Skip to secondary menu

## Site menu

![Government of Canada](/build/theme-gcwu-fegc/images/sig-eng.gif)

  * [Canada.ca](http://www.canada.ca/en/index.html)
  * [Services](http://www.canada.ca/en/services/index.html)
  * [Departments](http://www.canada.ca/en/gov/dept/index.html)
  * [Français](/scripts/changelanguage.asp)

![Symbol of the Government of Canada](/build/theme-gcwu-fegc/images/wmms.gif)

[Justice Laws Website](/eng)

## Search

Search website

## Site menu

  * ### Family Law

    * [Child Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/child-enfant/index.html)
    * [Divorce and Separation](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/divorce/index.html)
    * [Enforcing Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/enforce-execution/index.html)
    * [Family Justice Services](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/fjs-sjf/index.html)
    * [Custody and Parenting](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/parent/index.html)
    * [Spousal Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/spousal-epoux/index.html)
    * [Publications](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/pub.html)
    * [Provincial and Territorial Contacts](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/pt-tp/index.html)
    * [Contact Us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/contact/index.html)

[Family Law - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/index.html)

  * ### Criminal Justice

    * [Youth Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/yj-jj/index.html)
    * [Victims](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/victims-victimes/index.html)
    * [Family Violence](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/fv-vf/index.html)
    * [Criminal Conviction Review](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ccr-rc/index.html)
    * [Human Trafficking](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/tp/index.html)
    * [War Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/wc-cdg/index.html)
    * [National Security](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ns-sn/index.html)
    * [Extradition and Mutual Legal Assistance](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/emla-eej/index.html)

[Criminal Justice - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/index.html)

  * ### Funding

    * [Aboriginal Communities](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/acf-fca/index.html)
    * [Criminal Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/cj-jp/index.html)
    * [Family Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/famil/index.html)
    * [Justice System and Policy](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/jsp-sjp/index.html)
    * [Funding for Other Levels of Government](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/gov-gouv/index.html)
    * [Apply for Funding](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/form.html)

[Funding - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/index.html)

  * ### Canada's System of Justice

    * [About Canada's System of Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/just/)
    * [Bijuralism and Harmonization](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/harmonization/index.html)
    * [Canada's Court System](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/ccs-ajc/)
    * [Justice in Official Languages](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/franc/index.html)
    * [Legal Dualism and Bilingual Bisystemism](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/dualism-dualisme/index.html)

[Canada's System of Justice - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/)

  * ### Laws

    * [Constitutional Documents](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/Const/Const_index.html)
    * [Acts](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/)
    * [Regulations](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/regulations/)
    * [Search for an Act or Regulation ](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/Search/Search.aspx)

[Laws - More](/eng/)

## Breadcrumb trail

  1. [Home](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng)
  2. [Laws Website Home](/eng)
  3. [Consolidated Acts](/eng/acts/)
  4. [S.C. 1993, c. 38 -  Table of Contents](../index.html)
  5. [ Previous versions](../PITIndex.html)
  6. S.C. 1993, c. 38

[This Web page has been archived on the Web.](/eng/ArchiveNote)

Version of document from 2002-12-31 to 2004-12-14:

# Telecommunications Act

S.C. 1993, c. 38

Assented to 1993-06-23

An Act respecting telecommunications

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of
Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

# SHORT TITLE

###### Marginal note:Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Telecommunications Act](/eng/acts/T-3.4).

# PART IGENERAL

## Interpretation

###### Marginal note:Definitions

  * **2.** (1) In this Act,

“broadcasting undertaking”

« entreprise de radiodiffusion »

    

“broadcasting undertaking” has the same meaning as in subsection 2(1) of the
[Broadcasting Act](/eng/acts/B-9.01);

“Canadian carrier”

« entreprise canadienne »

    

“Canadian carrier” means a telecommunications common carrier that is subject
to the legislative authority of Parliament;

“Canadian telecommunications policy objectives”

Version anglaise seulement

    

“Canadian telecommunications policy objectives” means the objectives set out
in section 7;

“charge”

Version anglaise seulement

    

“charge” includes to receive in payment;

“Commission”

« Conseil »

    

“Commission” means the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications
Commission;

“control”

« contrôle »

    

“control” means control in any manner that results in control in fact, whether
directly through the ownership of securities or indirectly through a trust,
agreement or arrangement, the ownership of any body corporate or otherwise;

“decision”

« décision »

    

“decision” includes a determination made by the Commission in any form;

“exempt transmission apparatus”

« appareil de transmission exclu »

    

“exempt transmission apparatus” means any apparatus whose functions are
limited to one or more of the following:

    * (_a_) the switching of telecommunications,

    * (_b_) the input, capture, storage, organization, modification, retrieval, output or other processing of intelligence, or

    * (_c_) control of the speed, code, protocol, content, format, routing or similar aspects of the transmission of intelligence;

“intelligence”

« information »

    

“intelligence” means signs, signals, writing, images, sounds or intelligence
of any nature;

“international submarine cable”

« câble sous-marin international »

    

“international submarine cable” means a submarine telecommunications line that
extends between Canada and any place outside Canada, or between places outside
Canada through Canada, other than a line situated entirely under fresh water;

“international submarine cable licence”

« licence de câble sous-marin international »

    

“international submarine cable licence” means a licence issued under section
19;

“Minister”

« ministre »

    

“Minister” means the Minister of Industry;

“person”

« personne »

    

“person” includes any individual, partnership, body corporate, unincorporated
organization, government, government agency, trustee, executor, administrator
or other legal representative;

“prescribed”

Version anglaise seulement

    

“prescribed” means prescribed by regulation;

“public authority”

« administration publique »

    

“public authority” includes Her Majesty in right of Canada or a province;

“rate”

« tarif »

    

“rate” means an amount of money or other consideration and includes zero
consideration;

“special Act”

« loi spéciale »

    

“special Act” means an Act of Parliament respecting the operations of a
particular Canadian carrier;

“telecommunications”

« télécommunication »

    

“telecommunications” means the emission, transmission or reception of
intelligence by any wire, cable, radio, optical or other electromagnetic
system, or by any similar technical system;

“telecommunications common carrier”

« entreprise de télécommunication »

    

“telecommunications common carrier” means a person who owns or operates a
transmission facility used by that person or another person to provide
telecommunications services to the public for compensation;

“telecommunications facility”

« installation de télécommunication »

    

“telecommunications facility” means any facility, apparatus or other thing
that is used or is capable of being used for telecommunications or for any
operation directly connected with telecommunications, and includes a
transmission facility;

“telecommunications service”

« service de télécommunication »

    

“telecommunications service” means a service provided by means of
telecommunications facilities and includes the provision in whole or in part
of telecommunications facilities and any related equipment, whether by sale,
lease or otherwise;

“telecommunications service provider”

« fournisseur de services de télécommunication »

    

“telecommunications service provider” means a person who provides basic
telecommunications services, including by exempt transmission apparatus;

“transmission facility”

« installation de transmission »

    

“transmission facility” means any wire, cable, radio, optical or other
electromagnetic system, or any similar technical system, for the transmission
of intelligence between network termination points, but does not include any
exempt transmission apparatus.

  * ###### Marginal note:Definition of “network termination point”

(2) The Commission may define the expression “network termination point” for
purposes of the definition “transmission facility” in subsection (1).

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 2;
  * 1995, c. 1, s. 62;
  * 1998, c. 8, s. 1.

## Her Majesty

###### Marginal note:Act binding on Her Majesty

**3.** This Act is binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada or a province.

## Application

###### Marginal note:Broadcasting excluded

**4.** This Act does not apply in respect of broadcasting by a broadcasting undertaking.

###### Marginal note:Receivership

**5.** A trustee, receiver or manager who, under the authority of any court or any legal instrument, operates any transmission facility of a Canadian carrier is subject to this Act.

###### Marginal note:Special Acts

**6.** The provisions of this Act prevail over the provisions of any special Act to the extent that they are inconsistent.

## Canadian Telecommunications Policy

###### Marginal note:Objectives

**7.** It is hereby affirmed that telecommunications performs an essential role in the maintenance of Canada’s identity and sovereignty and that the Canadian telecommunications policy has as its objectives

  * (_a_) to facilitate the orderly development throughout Canada of a telecommunications system that serves to safeguard, enrich and strengthen the social and economic fabric of Canada and its regions;

  * (_b_) to render reliable and affordable telecommunications services of high quality accessible to Canadians in both urban and rural areas in all regions of Canada;

  * (_c_) to enhance the efficiency and competitiveness, at the national and international levels, of Canadian telecommunications;

  * (_d_) to promote the ownership and control of Canadian carriers by Canadians;

  * (_e_) to promote the use of Canadian transmission facilities for telecommunications within Canada and between Canada and points outside Canada;

  * (_f_) to foster increased reliance on market forces for the provision of telecommunications services and to ensure that regulation, where required, is efficient and effective;

  * (_g_) to stimulate research and development in Canada in the field of telecommunications and to encourage innovation in the provision of telecommunications services;

  * (_h_) to respond to the economic and social requirements of users of telecommunications services; and

  * (_i_) to contribute to the protection of the privacy of persons.

## Powers of Governor in Council, Commission and Minister

###### Marginal note:Directions

**8.** The Governor in Council may, by order, issue to the Commission directions of general application on broad policy matters with respect to the Canadian telecommunications policy objectives.

###### Marginal note:Exemptions

  * **9.** (1) The Commission may, by order, exempt any class of Canadian carriers from the application of this Act, subject to any conditions contained in the order, where the Commission, after holding a public hearing in relation to the exemption, is satisfied that the exemption is consistent with the Canadian telecommunications policy objectives.

  * ###### Marginal note:Inquiry and determination

(2) The Commission may, on application by any interested person or on its own
motion, inquire into and determine whether any condition of an exemption order
has been complied with.

  * ###### Marginal note:Interested persons

(3) The decision of the Commission that a person is or is not an interested
person is binding and conclusive.

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 9;
  * 1999, c. 31, s. 196(F).

###### Marginal note:Publication of proposed order

  * **10.** (1) The Minister shall have an order proposed to be made under section 8 published in the [Canada Gazette](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) and laid before each House of Parliament, and a reasonable opportunity shall be given to interested persons to make representations to the Minister with respect to the proposed order.

  * ###### Marginal note:Consultation

(2) The Minister shall consult the Commission with respect to an order
proposed to be made under section 8 before it is published or laid under this
section and shall consult the Commission again with respect to the order in
its definitive form before it is made.

  * ###### Marginal note:Transmittal and tabling of exemption orders

(3) The Commission shall send to the Minister an order proposed to be made
under section 9 and the Minister shall have the order laid before each House
of Parliament.

  * ###### Marginal note:Reference to committees

(4) A proposed order laid before a House of Parliament stands referred to such
committee as is designated by order of that House to receive such orders.

  * ###### Marginal note:Modification after publication

(5) A proposed order that is modified after publication need not be published
again under subsection (1).

  * ###### Marginal note:Making of order

(6) After the fortieth sitting day of Parliament following the first day on
which a proposed order has been laid before both Houses, the Governor in
Council or the Commission, as the case may be, may make the order either as
proposed or with any modifications the Governor in Council or the Commission
considers advisable.

  * ###### Marginal note:Tabling of orders

(7) After an order is made under section 8, the Minister shall have it laid
before each House of Parliament on any of the first fifteen days on which that
House is sitting after the order is made.

  * ###### Marginal note:Transmittal and tabling of exemption orders

(8) After an order is made under section 9, the Commission shall immediately
send it to the Minister who shall have it laid before each House of Parliament
on any of the first fifteen days on which that House is sitting after the
order is sent.

  * ###### Marginal note:Meaning of “sitting day”

(9) For the purposes of this section, a “sitting day” is a day on which either
House of Parliament is sitting.

###### Marginal note:Effect of order

  * **11.** (1) An order made under section 8 is binding on the Commission beginning on the day on which the order comes into force.

  * ###### Marginal note:Pending matters

(2) Subject to subsection (3), an order made under section 8 shall, if it so
provides, apply in respect of matters pending before the Commission on the day
on which the order comes into force.

  * ###### Marginal note:Idem

(3) An order made under section 8 does not apply in respect of a matter
pending before the Commission on the day on which the order comes into force
if

    * (_a_) final submissions have been filed in respect of that matter; and

    * (_b_) less than one year has expired since the period for filing final submissions ended.

###### Marginal note:Variation, rescission or referral

  * **12.** (1) Within one year after a decision by the Commission, the Governor in Council may, on petition in writing presented to the Governor in Council within ninety days after the decision, or on the Governor in Council’s own motion, by order, vary or rescind the decision or refer it back to the Commission for reconsideration of all or a portion of it.

  * ###### Marginal note:Copy of petition to Commission

(2) A person who presents a petition to the Governor in Council shall, at the
same time, send a copy of the petition to the Commission.

  * ###### Marginal note:Copies to other parties

(3) On receipt of a petition, the Commission shall send a copy of it to each
person who made any oral representation to the Commission in relation to the
decision that is the subject of the petition.

  * ###### Marginal note:Notice of petition

(4) On receipt of a petition, the Minister shall publish in the [Canada
Gazette](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) a notice of its receipt indicating where
the petition and any petition or submission made in response to it may be
inspected and copies of them obtained.

  * ###### Marginal note:Order for reference back

(5) An order made under subsection (1) that refers a decision back to the
Commission for reconsideration and hearing

    * (_a_) shall set out the details of any matter that the Governor in Council considers to be material to the reconsideration; and

    * (_b_) may specify a date before which the Commission shall complete its reconsideration.

  * ###### Marginal note:Reconsideration

(6) The Commission shall, before any date specified under paragraph (5)(_b_),
reconsider a decision referred back to it under subsection (1) and may
confirm, vary or rescind the decision.

  * ###### Marginal note:Variation or rescission by Governor in Council

(7) Where the Commission confirms or varies a decision under subsection (6) or
does not complete its reconsideration of the decision before any date
specified under paragraph (5)(_b_), the Governor in Council may, by order,
vary or rescind the decision within ninety days after the confirmation or
variation of the decision or the specified date, as the case may be.

  * ###### Marginal note:Reasons

(8) In an order made under subsection (1) or (7), the Governor in Council
shall set out the reasons for making the order.

###### Marginal note:Provincial consultation

**13.** The Minister, before making a recommendation to the Governor in Council for the purposes of any order under section 8 or 12, or before making any order under section 15, shall notify a minister designated by the government of each province of the Minister’s intention to make the recommendation or the order and shall provide an opportunity for each of them to consult with the Minister.

###### Marginal note:Report

**14.** The Governor in Council may require the Commission to make a report on any matter within the Commission’s jurisdiction under this Act or any special Act.

###### Marginal note:Technical standards

  * **15.** (1) The Minister may, where the Minister is satisfied that to do so will further the Canadian telecommunications policy objectives, by order made after consultation with the Commission, establish standards in respect of the technical aspects of telecommunications and require the Commission to give effect to them.

  * ###### Marginal note:Incorporation by reference

(2) An order that incorporates a standard by reference may incorporate it as
amended from time to time.

  * ###### Marginal note:Publication of proposed orders

(3) Any order proposed to be made under this section shall be published in the
[Canada Gazette](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) at least sixty days before its
proposed effective date, and a reasonable opportunity shall be given to
interested persons to make representations to the Minister with respect to the
proposed order.

  * ###### Marginal note:Modification after publication

(4) A proposed order that is modified after publication need not be published
again under subsection (3).

# PART IIELIGIBILITY TO OPERATE

## Canadian Ownership and Control

###### Marginal note:Eligibility

  * **16.** (1) A Canadian carrier is eligible to operate as a telecommunications common carrier if it is a Canadian-owned and controlled corporation incorporated or continued under the laws of Canada or a province.

  * ###### Marginal note:Established carriers

(2) A Canadian carrier other than a corporation described in subsection (1) is
eligible to operate as a telecommunications common carrier if it is a
corporation incorporated or continued under the laws of Canada or a province
and the following conditions are met:

    * (_a_) the corporation was acting, or is a successor to a person that was acting, as a telecommunications common carrier in Canada on July 22, 1987, whether or not the telecommunications operations of the corporation or the person it succeeded were regulated under any Act of Parliament on that day;

    * (_b_) the telecommunications operations on July 22, 1987 of the corporation or the person it succeeded have been continued substantially without interruption since that day by that person, if any, and the corporation;

    * (_c_) the corporation and the person it succeeded, if any, satisfied the prescribed criteria respecting continuous ownership and control by Canadians since July 22, 1987; and

    * (_d_) the corporation and the person it succeeded, if any, have operated as a telecommunications common carrier only in the territory in which the corporation or that person operated as such on July 22, 1987, or in such greater territory and in such manner as is specified by the Minister.

  * ###### Marginal note:Canadian ownership and control

(3) For the purposes of subsection (1), a corporation is Canadian-owned and
controlled if

    * (_a_) not less than eighty per cent of the members of the board of directors of the corporation are individual Canadians;

    * (_b_) Canadians beneficially own, directly or indirectly, in the aggregate and otherwise than by way of security only, not less than eighty per cent of the corporation’s voting shares issued and outstanding; and

    * (_c_) the corporation is not otherwise controlled by persons that are not Canadians.

  * ###### Marginal note:Prohibition

(4) No Canadian carrier shall operate as a telecommunications common carrier
unless it is eligible under this section to operate as such.

  * ###### Marginal note:Exemption

(5) Subsections (1), (2) and (4) do not apply in respect of the ownership or
operation of

    * (_a_) international submarine cables; or

    * (_b_) earth stations that provide telecommunications services by means of satellites.

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 16;
  * 1998, c. 8, s. 2.

## International Telecommunications Services Licences

###### Marginal note:Licence required — classes of telecommunications service
providers

  * **16.1** (1) No telecommunications service provider that is of a class specified by the Commission shall provide international telecommunications services except in accordance with an international telecommunications service licence.

  * ###### Marginal note:Licence required — classes of service

(2) No telecommunications service provider shall, except in accordance with an
international telecommunications service licence, provide international
telecommunications services that are within a class of telecommunications
services specified by the Commission.

  * 1998, c. 8, s. 3.

###### Marginal note:Application

**16.2** An application for the issuance, renewal or amendment of an international telecommunications service licence must be made in the form and manner and with the information specified by the Commission, and be accompanied by the fee prescribed under subsection 68(1).

  * 1998, c. 8, s. 3.

###### Marginal note:Issuance of licences

  * **16.3** (1) The Commission may, on application, issue an international telecommunications service licence.

  * ###### Marginal note:Conditions

(2) The Commission may, in respect of international telecommunications
services,

    * (_a_) establish licence conditions in respect of classes of telecommunications service providers or classes of international telecommunications services; and

    * (_b_) include in a licence conditions that are related to the circumstances of the licensee and that the Commission considers appropriate.

  * ###### Marginal note:Amendment

(3) The Commission may, on application by any interested person or on its own
motion, amend any conditions of a licence.

  * ###### Marginal note:Term

(4) The term of a licence may not exceed ten years on its issuance or renewal.

  * ###### Marginal note:Renewal

(5) A licence may be renewed on application by the licensee.

  * ###### Marginal note:Transfer

(6) A licence is not transferable except with the consent of the Commission.

  * 1998, c. 8, s. 3.

###### Marginal note:Suspension and revocation of telecommunications service
licences

  * **16.4** (1) The Commission may suspend or revoke an international telecommunications service licence whenever the Commission believes on reasonable grounds that the licensee has contravened this Act, the regulations or any condition of the licence, but the licensee must first be given notice in writing of the reasons for the suspension or revocation and a reasonable opportunity to make representations to the Commission.

  * ###### Marginal note:Consent of licensee

(2) The Commission may suspend or revoke a licence with the consent of, or on
application by, the licensee.

  * 1998, c. 8, s. 3.

## International Submarine Cable Licences

###### Marginal note:Licence required

**17.** No person shall construct or operate an international submarine cable or construct or operate any works or facilities for the purpose of operating an international submarine cable except in accordance with an international submarine cable licence that has been issued to the person and that the person remains eligible under the regulations to hold.

###### Marginal note:Application

**18.** An application for the issuance, renewal or amendment of an international submarine cable licence must be made in the prescribed form and manner and be accompanied by the prescribed information and the prescribed fee or a fee calculated in the prescribed manner.

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 18;
  * 1999, c. 31, s. 197(F).

###### Marginal note:Issuance of licences

  * **19.** (1) The Minister may, on application, issue an international submarine cable licence to a person who is eligible under the regulations to hold the licence.

  * ###### Marginal note:Conditions

(2) An international submarine cable licence may contain such conditions as
the Minister considers are consistent with the Canadian telecommunications
policy objectives.

  * ###### Marginal note:Term

(3) The term of an international submarine cable licence may not exceed ten
years on issuance of the licence or on renewal.

  * ###### Marginal note:Amendment, renewal and transfer

(4) An international submarine cable licence may be amended or renewed on
application by the licensee, but a licence is not transferable except with the
consent of the Minister.

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 19;
  * 1998, c. 8, s. 4.

###### Marginal note:Suspension and revocation of licences

  * **20.** (1) The Minister may suspend or revoke an international submarine cable licence whenever the Minister believes on reasonable grounds that the licensee has ceased to be eligible under the regulations or has contravened this Act, the regulations or any condition of the licence but the licensee must first be given notice in writing of the reasons for the suspension or revocation and a reasonable opportunity to make representations to the Minister.

  * ###### Marginal note:Idem

(2) The Minister may suspend or revoke an international submarine cable
licence on application made by or with the consent of the licensee.

## Documentary Evidence

###### Marginal note:Supporting affidavit

**21.** The Minister may require the furnishing of an affidavit or a solemn declaration attesting to the authenticity of any document provided under this Part or the regulations, or to the truth of any fact stated in any such document or in any application submitted under this Part.

## Regulations

###### Marginal note:Regulations

  * **22.** (1) The Governor in Council may, in relation to Canadian carriers’ eligibility under section 16 to operate as telecommunications common carriers, make regulations

    * (_a_) respecting information that is to be provided, the persons by whom and to whom it is to be provided, the manner in which and the time within which it is to be provided and the consequences of failing to provide it;

    * (_b_) respecting the circumstances and the manner in which a Canadian carrier, in order to maintain its eligibility, may control the acquisition and ownership of its voting shares, restrict, suspend or refuse to recognize ownership rights in respect of those shares and require holders of those shares to dispose of them;

    * (_c_) authorizing the board of directors of a Canadian carrier to pay a dividend or to make any other distribution with respect to voting shares that would otherwise be prohibited because the shares were held in contravention of section 16 or any regulations made under this subsection where, in the board’s opinion, the contravention was inadvertent or of a technical nature or it would be otherwise inequitable not to pay the dividend or make the distribution;

    * (_d_) respecting the circumstances and the manner in which a Canadian carrier may restrict voting rights attached to shares, or suspend or void the exercise of those rights, in order to maintain its eligibility;

    * (_e_) respecting the circumstances and the manner in which a Canadian carrier may

      * (i) sell, redeem or purchase shares held contrary to section 16 or any regulations made under this subsection, and

      * (ii) deal with the proceeds of sale and reimburse any purchasers of the shares in good faith;

    * (_f_) respecting the powers of a Canadian carrier to require disclosure of the beneficial ownership of its shares, the right of the carrier and its directors, officers, employees and agents to rely on any required disclosure and the effects of their reliance;

    * (_g_) respecting the verification by the Commission of a Canadian carrier’s eligibility, the measures the Commission may take to maintain the carrier’s eligibility, including exercising the powers of the carrier’s board of directors and countermanding its decisions, and the circumstances and manner in which the Commission may take those measures;

    * (_h_) respecting the circumstances and manner in which the Commission and its members, officers, employees or agents or a Canadian carrier and its directors, officers, employees and agents may be protected from liability for actions taken by them in order to maintain the carrier’s eligibility;

    * (_i_) defining the words “successor” and “Canadian” for the purposes of section 16; and

    * (_j_) prescribing anything that is to be prescribed and generally for carrying out the purposes and provisions of section 16 and this subsection.

  * ###### Marginal note:Idem

(2) The Governor in Council may, in relation to international submarine cable
licences, make regulations

    * (_a_) prescribing the procedure governing applications for licences, including the form of applications, the information to accompany them and the manner of filing, processing and disposing of them;

    * (_b_) respecting the form of licences and the information they must include and requiring licensees to publish or otherwise make them available for public inspection;

    * (_c_) prescribing classes of international submarine cable licences and determining the persons eligible to hold licences of any particular class;

    * (_d_) prescribing fees, or the manner of calculating fees, in respect of licences and prescribing the manner in which the fees are to be paid; and

    * (_e_) generally for carrying out the purposes and provisions of sections 17 to 20.

  * ###### Marginal note:Liability for fees

(3) Fees required to be paid under this Part constitute a debt due to Her
Majesty in right of Canada and may be recovered in a court of competent
jurisdiction.

  * ###### Marginal note:Publication of proposed regulations

(4) Any regulations proposed to be made under this section shall be published
in the [Canada Gazette](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) at least sixty days before
their proposed effective date, and a reasonable opportunity shall be given to
interested persons to make representations to the Minister with respect to the
proposed regulations.

  * ###### Marginal note:Idem

(5) Proposed regulations that are modified after publication need not be
published again under subsection (4).

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 22;
  * 1998, c. 8, s. 5;
  * 1999, c. 31, s. 198(F).

# PART IIIRATES, FACILITIES AND SERVICES

## Provision of Services

###### Marginal note:Meaning of “telecommunications service”

**23.** For the purposes of this Part and Part IV, “telecommunications service” has the same meaning as in section 2 and includes any service that is incidental to the business of providing telecommunications services.

###### Marginal note:Conditions of service

**24.** The offering and provision of any telecommunications service by a Canadian carrier are subject to any conditions imposed by the Commission or included in a tariff approved by the Commission.

###### Marginal note:Telecommunications rates to be approved

  * **25.** (1) No Canadian carrier shall provide a telecommunications service except in accordance with a tariff filed with and approved by the Commission that specifies the rate or the maximum or minimum rate, or both, to be charged for the service.

  * ###### Marginal note:Filing of joint tariffs

(2) A joint tariff agreed on by two or more Canadian carriers may be filed by
any of the carriers with an attestation of the agreement of the other
carriers.

  * ###### Marginal note:Form of tariffs

(3) A tariff shall be filed and published or otherwise made available for
public inspection by a Canadian carrier in the form and manner specified by
the Commission and shall include any information required by the Commission to
be included.

  * ###### Marginal note:Special circumstances

(4) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the Commission may ratify the charging of
a rate by a Canadian carrier otherwise than in accordance with a tariff
approved by the Commission if the Commission is satisfied that the rate

    * (_a_) was charged because of an error or other circumstance that warrants the ratification; or

    * (_b_) was imposed in conformity with the laws of a province before the operations of the carrier were regulated under any Act of Parliament.

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 25;
  * 1999, c. 31, s. 199(F).

###### Marginal note:Effective date of tariff

**26.** Within forty-five business days after a tariff is filed by a Canadian carrier, the Commission shall

  * (_a_) approve the tariff, with or without amendments, or substitute or require the carrier to substitute another tariff for it;

  * (_b_) disallow the tariff; or

  * (_c_) make public written reasons why the Commission has not acted under paragraph (_a_) or (_b_) and specify the period of time within which the Commission intends to do so.

###### Marginal note:Just and reasonable rates

  * **27.** (1) Every rate charged by a Canadian carrier for a telecommunications service shall be just and reasonable.

  * ###### Marginal note:Unjust discrimination

(2) No Canadian carrier shall, in relation to the provision of a
telecommunications service or the charging of a rate for it, unjustly
discriminate or give an undue or unreasonable preference toward any person,
including itself, or subject any person to an undue or unreasonable
disadvantage.

  * ###### Marginal note:Questions of fact

(3) The Commission may determine in any case, as a question of fact, whether a
Canadian carrier has complied with section 25, this section or section 29, or
with any decision made under section 24, 25, 29, 34 or 40.

  * ###### Marginal note:Burden of proof

(4) The burden of establishing before the Commission that any discrimination
is not unjust or that any preference or disadvantage is not undue or
unreasonable is on the Canadian carrier that discriminates, gives the
preference or subjects the person to the disadvantage.

  * ###### Marginal note:Method

(5) In determining whether a rate is just and reasonable, the Commission may
adopt any method or technique that it considers appropriate, whether based on
a carrier’s return on its rate base or otherwise.

  * ###### Marginal note:Exception

(6) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2), a Canadian carrier may provide
telecommunications services at no charge or at a reduced rate

    * (_a_) to the carrier’s directors, officers, employees or former employees; or

    * (_b_) with the approval of the Commission, to any charitable organization or disadvantaged person or other person.

###### Marginal note:Transmission of broadcasts

  * **28.** (1) The Commission shall have regard to the broadcasting policy for Canada set out in subsection 3(1) of the [Broadcasting Act](/eng/acts/B-9.01) in determining whether any discrimination is unjust or any preference or disadvantage is undue or unreasonable in relation to any transmission of programs, as defined in subsection 2(1) of that Act, that is primarily direct to the public and made

    * (_a_) by satellite; or

    * (_b_) through the terrestrial distribution facilities of a Canadian carrier, whether alone or in conjunction with facilities owned by a broadcasting undertaking.

  * ###### Marginal note:Satellite transmission of broadcasts

(2) Where a person who carries on a broadcasting undertaking does not agree
with a Canadian carrier with respect to the allocation of satellite capacity
for the transmission by the carrier of programs, as defined in subsection 2(1)
of the [Broadcasting Act](/eng/acts/B-9.01), the Commission may allocate
satellite capacity to particular broadcasting undertakings if it is satisfied
that the allocation will further the implementation of the broadcasting policy
for Canada set out in subsection 3(1) of that Act.

  * ###### Marginal note:Idem

(3) Before the Commission exercises its power under subsection (2), it shall
take into account the carrier’s role as a telecommunications common carrier
and any operational constraints identified by the carrier.

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 28;
  * 1999, c. 31, s. 200(F).

###### Marginal note:Approval of working agreements

**29.** No Canadian carrier shall, without the prior approval of the Commission, give effect to any agreement or arrangement, whether oral or written, with another telecommunications common carrier respecting

  * (_a_) the interchange of telecommunications by means of their telecommunications facilities;

  * (_b_) the management or operation of either or both of their facilities or any other facilities with which either or both are connected; or

  * (_c_) the apportionment of rates or revenues between the carriers.

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 29;
  * 1999, c. 31, s. 201(F).

###### Marginal note:Recovery of charges

**30.** In default of payment, a rate charged by a Canadian carrier in accordance with this Act for a telecommunications service constitutes a debt due to the carrier and may be recovered in a court of competent jurisdiction.

###### Marginal note:Limitations on liability

**31.** No limitation of a Canadian carrier’s liability in respect of a telecommunications service is effective unless it has been authorized or prescribed by the Commission.

###### Marginal note:General powers

**32.** The Commission may, for the purposes of this Part,

  * (_a_) approve the establishment of classes of telecommunications services and permit different rates to be charged for different classes of service;

  * (_b_) determine standards in respect of the technical aspects of telecommunications applicable to telecommunications facilities operated by or connected to those of a Canadian carrier;

  * (_c_) amend any tariff filed under section 25 or any agreement or arrangement submitted for approval under section 29;

  * (_d_) suspend or disallow any portion of a tariff, agreement or arrangement that is in its opinion inconsistent with this Part;

  * (_e_) substitute or require the Canadian carrier to substitute other provisions for those disallowed;

  * (_f_) require the Canadian carrier to file another tariff, agreement or arrangement, or another portion of it, in substitution for a suspended or disallowed tariff, agreement, arrangement or portion; and

  * (_g_) in the absence of any applicable provision in this Part, determine any matter and make any order relating to the rates, tariffs or telecommunications services of Canadian carriers.

###### Marginal note:Integral activities of affiliates

**33.** Where a Canadian carrier provides a basic telecommunications service and, in the opinion of the Commission,

  * (_a_) an activity of an affiliate of the carrier is integral to the provision of the service by the carrier, and

  * (_b_) the Commission’s other powers under this Act are not sufficient for the purpose of ensuring that the rates charged by the carrier for telecommunications services are just and reasonable,

the Commission may, for that purpose, treat some or all of the earnings of the
affiliate from the activity as if they were earnings of the carrier.

## Forbearance

###### Marginal note:Forbearance by Commission

  * **34.** (1) The Commission may make a determination to refrain, in whole or in part and conditionally or unconditionally, from the exercise of any power or the performance of any duty under sections 24, 25, 27, 29 and 31 in relation to a telecommunications service or class of services provided by a Canadian carrier, where the Commission finds as a question of fact that to refrain would be consistent with the Canadian telecommunications policy objectives.

  * ###### Marginal note:Idem

(2) Where the Commission finds as a question of fact that a telecommunications
service or class of services provided by a Canadian carrier is or will be
subject to competition sufficient to protect the interests of users, the
Commission shall make a determination to refrain, to the extent that it
considers appropriate, conditionally or unconditionally, from the exercise of
any power or the performance of any duty under sections 24, 25, 27, 29 and 31
in relation to the service or class of services.

  * ###### Marginal note:Exception

(3) The Commission shall not make a determination to refrain under this
section in relation to a telecommunications service or class of services if
the Commission finds as a question of fact that to refrain would be likely to
impair unduly the establishment or continuance of a competitive market for
that service or class of services.

  * ###### Marginal note:Effect of forbearance

(4) The Commission shall declare that sections 24, 25, 27, 29 and 31 do not
apply to a Canadian carrier to the extent that those sections are inconsistent
with a determination of the Commission under this section.

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 34;
  * 1999, c. 31, s. 202(F).

## Order to Provide Services

###### Marginal note:Order to provide services

  * **35.** (1) Where the Commission determines as a question of fact that a telecommunications service or class of services provided by an affiliate of a Canadian carrier is not subject to a degree of competition that is sufficient to ensure just and reasonable rates and prevent unjust discrimination and undue or unreasonable preference or disadvantage, the Commission may require the Canadian carrier to provide the service or class of services in any manner, to any extent and subject to any conditions determined by the Commission, if it is satisfied that it would be an effective and practical means of achieving the purposes of section 27 with respect to the service or class.

  * ###### Marginal note:Order to discontinue service

(2) Where the Commission determines as a question of fact that a
telecommunications service or class of services provided by a Canadian carrier
is subject to a degree of competition that is sufficient to ensure just and
reasonable rates and prevent unjust discrimination and undue or unreasonable
preference or disadvantage, the Commission may require the Canadian carrier to
discontinue the service or class of services in the manner, to the extent and
subject to the conditions determined by the Commission, if it is satisfied
that it would be an effective and practical means of achieving the purposes of
section 27 with respect to the service or class.

  * ###### Marginal note:Meaning of “affiliate”

(3) In subsection (1), “affiliate”, in relation to a Canadian carrier, means a
person who controls the carrier, or who is controlled by the carrier or by any
person who controls the carrier.

## Content of Messages

###### Marginal note:Content of messages

**36.** Except where the Commission approves otherwise, a Canadian carrier shall not control the content or influence the meaning or purpose of telecommunications carried by it for the public.

## Provision of Information

###### Marginal note:Information requirements

  * **37.** (1) The Commission may require a Canadian carrier

    * (_a_) to adopt any method of identifying the costs of providing telecommunications services and to adopt any accounting method or system of accounts for the purposes of the administration of this Act; or

    * (_b_) to submit to the Commission, in periodic reports or in such other form and manner as the Commission specifies, any information that the Commission considers necessary for the administration of this Act or any special Act.

  * ###### Marginal note:Exception

(2) Where the Commission believes that a person other than a Canadian carrier
is in possession of information that the Commission considers necessary for
the administration of this Act or any special Act, the Commission may require
that person to submit the information to the Commission in periodic reports or
in such other form and manner as the Commission specifies, unless the
information is a confidence of the executive council of a province.

  * ###### Marginal note:Transmittal

(3) The Commission shall, on request, provide the Minister or the Chief
Statistician of Canada with any information submitted to the Commission.

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 37;
  * 1999, c. 31, s. 203(F).

###### Marginal note:Access to information

**38.** Subject to section 39, the Commission shall make available for public inspection any information submitted to the Commission in the course of proceedings before it.

###### Marginal note:Designation of information

  * **39.** (1) For the purposes of this section, a person who submits any of the following information to the Commission may designate it as confidential:

    * (_a_) information that is a trade secret;

    * (_b_) financial, commercial, scientific or technical information that is confidential and that is treated consistently in a confidential manner by the person who submitted it; or

    * (_c_) information the disclosure of which could reasonably be expected

      * (i) to result in material financial loss or gain to any person,

      * (ii) to prejudice the competitive position of any person, or

      * (iii) to affect contractual or other negotiations of any person.

  * ###### Marginal note:Information not to be disclosed

(2) Subject to subsections (4), (5) and (6), where a person designates
information as confidential and the designation is not withdrawn by that
person, no person described in subsection (3) shall knowingly disclose the
information, or knowingly allow it to be disclosed, to any other person in any
manner that is calculated or likely to make it available for the use of any
person who may benefit from the information or use the information to the
detriment of any person to whose business or affairs the information relates.

  * ###### Marginal note:Persons who must not disclose information

(3) Subsection (2) applies to

    * (_a_) any member of, or person employed by, the Commission, and

    * (_b_) in respect of information provided under subsection 37(3), the Minister, the Chief Statistician of Canada and any person employed in the public service of Canada

who comes into possession of designated information while holding that office
or being so employed, whether or not the person has ceased to hold that office
or be so employed.

  * ###### Marginal note:Disclosure of information submitted in proceedings

(4) Where designated information is submitted in the course of proceedings
before the Commission, the Commission may disclose or require its disclosure
where it determines, after considering any representations from interested
persons, that the disclosure is in the public interest.

  * ###### Marginal note:Disclosure of other information

(5) Where designated information is submitted to the Commission otherwise than
in the course of proceedings before it, the Commission may disclose or require
its disclosure if, after considering any representations from interested
persons, it considers the information to be relevant to the determination of a
matter before it and determines that the disclosure is in the public interest.

  * ###### Marginal note:Information inadmissible

(6) Designated information that is not disclosed or required to be disclosed
under this section is not admissible in evidence in any judicial proceedings
except proceedings for failure to submit information required to be submitted
under this Act or any special Act or for forgery, perjury or false declaration
in relation to the submission of the information.

## Connection of Facilities

###### Marginal note:Order for connection

  * **40.** (1) The Commission may order a Canadian carrier to connect any of the carrier’s telecommunications facilities to any other telecommunications facilities.

  * ###### Marginal note:Conditions of order

(2) An order may require the connection to be made at or within such time, and
subject to such conditions, if any, as to compensation or otherwise, as the
Commission determines to be just and expedient.

## Unsolicited Telecommunications

###### Marginal note:Prohibition or regulation by Commission

**41.** The Commission may, by order, prohibit or regulate the use by any person of the telecommunications facilities of a Canadian carrier for the provision of unsolicited telecommunications to the extent that the Commission considers it necessary to prevent undue inconvenience or nuisance, giving due regard to freedom of expression.

## Construction and Expropriation Powers

###### Marginal note:Works ordered by Commission

  * **42.** (1) Subject to any contrary provision in any Act other than this Act or any special Act, the Commission may, by order, in the exercise of its powers under this Act or any special Act, require or permit any telecommunications facilities to be provided, constructed, installed, altered, moved, operated, used, repaired or maintained or any property to be acquired or any system or method to be adopted, by any person interested in or affected by the order, and at or within such time, subject to such conditions as to compensation or otherwise and under such supervision as the Commission determines to be just and expedient.

  * ###### Marginal note:Payment of costs

(2) The Commission may specify by whom, in what proportion and at or within
what time the cost of doing anything required or permitted to be done under
subsection (1) shall be paid.

###### Marginal note:Definition

  * **43.** (1) In this section and section 44, “distribution undertaking” has the same meaning as in subsection 2(1) of the [Broadcasting Act](/eng/acts/B-9.01).

  * ###### Marginal note:Entry on public property

(2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4) and section 44, a Canadian carrier or
distribution undertaking may enter on and break up any highway or other public
place for the purpose of constructing, maintaining or operating its
transmission lines and may remain there for as long as is necessary for that
purpose, but shall not unduly interfere with the public use and enjoyment of
the highway or other public place.

  * ###### Marginal note:Consent of municipality

(3) No Canadian carrier or distribution undertaking shall construct a
transmission line on, over, under or along a highway or other public place
without the consent of the municipality or other public authority having
jurisdiction over the highway or other public place.

  * ###### Marginal note:Application by carrier

(4) Where a Canadian carrier or distribution undertaking cannot, on terms
acceptable to it, obtain the consent of the municipality or other public
authority to construct a transmission line, the carrier or distribution
undertaking may apply to the Commission for permission to construct it and the
Commission may, having due regard to the use and enjoyment of the highway or
other public place by others, grant the permission subject to any conditions
that the Commission determines.

  * ###### Marginal note:Access by others

(5) Where a person who provides services to the public cannot, on terms
acceptable to that person, gain access to the supporting structure of a
transmission line constructed on a highway or other public place, that person
may apply to the Commission for a right of access to the supporting structure
for the purpose of providing such services and the Commission may grant the
permission subject to any conditions that the Commission determines.

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 43;
  * 1999, c. 31, s. 204(F).

###### Marginal note:Applications by municipalities and other authorities

**44.** On application by a municipality or other public authority, the Commission may

  * (_a_) order a Canadian carrier or distribution undertaking, subject to any conditions that the Commission determines, to bury or alter the route of any transmission line situated or proposed to be situated within the jurisdiction of the municipality or public authority; or

  * (_b_) prohibit the construction, maintenance or operation by a Canadian carrier or distribution undertaking of any such transmission line except as directed by the Commission.

###### Marginal note:Drainage and utilities

**45.** On application by a municipality or other public authority, or by an owner of land, the Commission may authorize the construction of drainage works or the laying of utility pipes on, over, under or along a transmission line of a Canadian carrier or any lands used for the purposes of a transmission line, subject to any conditions that the Commission determines.

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 45;
  * 1999, c. 31, s. 205(F).

###### Marginal note:Expropriation by carrier

  * **46.** (1) Where, in the opinion of a Canadian carrier, the taking or acquisition by the carrier of any land or an interest in any land without the consent of the owner is required for the purpose of providing telecommunications services to the public, the carrier may, with the approval of the Commission, so advise the appropriate Minister in relation to Part I of the [Expropriation Act](/eng/acts/E-21).

  * ###### Marginal note:Copies of opinion

(2) The Commission shall provide a copy of its approval to the Minister, to
the appropriate Minister in relation to Part I of the [Expropriation
Act](/eng/acts/E-21) and to each owner of, or person having an interest in,
the land.

  * ###### Marginal note:Interpretation

(3) For the purposes of the [Expropriation Act](/eng/acts/E-21), where the
appropriate Minister advised under subsection (1) is of the opinion that the
land or interest in land is required for the purpose of providing
telecommunications services to the public,

    * (_a_) the land or interest in land is deemed to be, in the opinion of that Minister, required for a public work or other public purpose;

    * (_b_) a reference to the Crown in that Act is deemed to be a reference to the Canadian carrier; and

    * (_c_) the carrier is liable to pay any amounts required to be paid under subsection 10(9) and sections 25, 29 and 36 of that Act in respect of the land or interest in land.

  * ###### Marginal note:Liability to Crown for expenses

(4) The expenses incurred in carrying out any function of the Attorney General
of Canada under the [Expropriation Act](/eng/acts/E-21) in relation to any
land or interest in land referred to in subsection (3) constitute a debt due
to Her Majesty in right of Canada by the Canadian carrier and are recoverable
in a court of competent jurisdiction.

## Telecommunications Numbering and Other Matters

###### Marginal note:Administration by Commission

**46.1** The Commission may, if it determines that to do so would facilitate the interoperation of Canadian telecommunications networks,

  * (_a_) administer

    * (i) databases or information, administrative or operational systems related to the functioning of telecommunications networks, or

    * (ii) numbering resources used in the functioning of telecommunications networks, including the portion of the North American Numbering Plan resources that relates to Canadian telecommunications networks; and

  * (_b_) determine any matter and make any order with respect to the databases, information, administrative or operational systems or numbering resources.

  * 1998, c. 8, s. 6.

###### Marginal note:Delegation of powers

  * **46.2** (1) The Commission may, in writing and on specified terms, delegate any of its powers under section 46.1 to any person, including any body created by the Commission for that purpose.

  * ###### Marginal note:Decision of delegate

(2) For the purposes of sections 62 and 63, a decision of a delegate is deemed
to be a decision of the Commission.

  * ###### Marginal note:Decision of Commission

(3) For greater certainty, a delegation of powers is a decision of the
Commission.

  * ###### Marginal note:Revocation of delegation

(4) The Commission may, in writing, revoke a delegation of powers. A
revocation is deemed not to be a decision of the Commission.

  * 1998, c. 8, s. 6.

###### Marginal note:Rates

  * **46.3** (1) Subject to subsection (2), a delegate may charge rates for exercising delegated powers.

  * ###### Marginal note:Regulation of rates

(2) The Commission may regulate the rates charged by a delegate, whether by
requiring pre-approval of the rates or otherwise.

  * ###### Marginal note:[Financial Administration Act](/eng/acts/F-11) does not apply

(3) Notwithstanding the [Financial Administration Act](/eng/acts/F-11), money
collected by a delegate is deemed not to be public money.

  * 1998, c. 8, s. 6.

###### Marginal note:Regulation of conditions and rates

**46.4** The Commission may regulate

  * (_a_) the manner in which any person provides services relating to any of the matters referred to in paragraph 46.1(_a_); and

  * (_b_) the rates, whether by requiring pre-approval of the rates or otherwise, charged by the person.

  * 1998, c. 8, s. 6.

###### Marginal note:Contribution to fund

  * **46.5** (1) The Commission may require any telecommunications service provider to contribute, subject to any conditions that the Commission may set, to a fund to support continuing access by Canadians to basic telecommunications services.

  * ###### Marginal note:Designation of administrator

(2) The Commission must designate a person to administer the fund.

  * ###### Marginal note:Regulation of administration and rates

(3) The Commission may regulate

    * (_a_) the manner in which the administrator administers the fund; and

    * (_b_) the rates, whether by requiring pre-approval of the rates or otherwise, charged by the administrator for administering the fund.

  * 1998, c. 8, s. 6.

# PART IVADMINISTRATION

## Exercise of Powers

###### Marginal note:Commission subject to orders and standards

**47.** The Commission shall exercise its powers and perform its duties under this Act and any special Act

  * (_a_) with a view to implementing the Canadian telecommunications policy objectives and ensuring that Canadian carriers provide telecommunications services and charge rates in accordance with section 27; and

  * (_b_) in accordance with any orders made by the Governor in Council under section 8 or any standards prescribed by the Minister under section 15.

###### Marginal note:Inquiries and determinations

  * **48.** (1) The Commission may, on application by any interested person or on its own motion, inquire into and make a determination in respect of anything prohibited, required or permitted to be done under Part II, except in relation to international submarine cables, Part III or this Part or under any special Act, and the Commission shall inquire into any matter on which it is required to report or take action under section 14.

  * ###### Marginal note:Interested persons

(2) The decision of the Commission that a person is or is not an interested
person is binding and conclusive.

###### Marginal note:Quorum

**49.** For the purposes of this Act, a quorum of the Commission consists of two members, but in uncontested matters a quorum consists of one member.

###### Marginal note:Extension of time

**50.** The Commission may extend the period, whether fixed by regulation or otherwise, for doing anything required to be done in proceedings before it or under any of its decisions.

###### Marginal note:Mandatory and restraining orders

**51.** The Commission may order a person, at or within any time and subject to any conditions that it determines, to do anything the person is required to do under this Act or any special Act, and may forbid a person to do anything that the person is prohibited from doing under this Act or any special Act.

###### Marginal note:Questions of law and fact

  * **52.** (1) The Commission may, in exercising its powers and performing its duties under this Act or any special Act, determine any question of law or of fact, and its determination on a question of fact is binding and conclusive.

  * ###### Marginal note:Factual findings of court

(2) In determining a question of fact, the Commission is not bound by the
finding or judgment of any court, but the finding or judgment of a court is
admissible in proceedings of the Commission.

  * ###### Marginal note:Pending proceedings

(3) The power of the Commission to hear and determine a question of fact is
not affected by proceedings pending before any court in which the question is
in issue.

###### Marginal note:Counsel assigned by Minister of Justice

**53.** Where an issue of particular importance affecting the public interest arises, or may arise, in the course of proceedings before the Commission, the Minister of Justice may, at the request of the Commission or of the Minister’s own motion, instruct counsel to intervene in the proceedings with respect to the issue.

###### Marginal note:_In camera_ hearings

**54.** A hearing or a portion of a hearing before the Commission may, on the request of any party to the hearing, or on the Commission’s own motion, be held in camera if that party establishes to the satisfaction of the Commission, or the Commission determines, that the circumstances of the case so require.

###### Marginal note:Judicial powers

**55.** The Commission has the powers of a superior court with respect to

  * (_a_) the attendance and examination of witnesses;

  * (_b_) the production and examination of any document, information or thing;

  * (_c_) the enforcement of its decisions;

  * (_d_) the entry on and inspection of property; and

  * (_e_) the doing of anything else necessary for the exercise of its powers and the performance of its duties.

###### Marginal note:Award of costs

  * **56.** (1) The Commission may award interim or final costs of and incidental to proceedings before it and may fix the amount of the costs or direct that the amount be taxed.

  * ###### Marginal note:Payment of costs

(2) The Commission may order by whom and to whom any costs are to be paid and
by whom they are to be taxed and may establish a scale for the taxation of
costs.

###### Marginal note:Rules, orders and regulations

**57.** The Commission may make rules, orders and regulations respecting any matter or thing within the jurisdiction of the Commission under this Act or any special Act.

## Guidelines and Advice

###### Marginal note:Guidelines

**58.** The Commission may from time to time issue guidelines and statements with respect to any matter within its jurisdiction under this Act or any special Act, but the guidelines and statements are not binding on the Commission.

###### Marginal note:Advice

  * **59.** (1) Where a person proposes to provide a telecommunications service that would utilize telecommunications services obtained from a Canadian carrier, the Commission may, on application by the person or the carrier, advise the applicant whether and under what conditions the carrier is obliged or entitled to provide telecommunications services for the purpose of that utilization under the applicable decisions of the Commission and tariffs of the carrier, but the advice is not binding on the Commission.

  * ###### Marginal note:Saving

(2) This section does not affect the power of the Commission to advise any
person with respect to any other matter within its jurisdiction.

## Decisions of Commission

###### Marginal note:Partial or additional relief

**60.** The Commission may grant the whole or any portion of the relief applied for in any case, and may grant any other relief in addition to or in substitution for the relief applied for as if the application had been for that other relief.

###### Marginal note:Conditional decisions

  * **61.** (1) The Commission may, in any decision, provide that the whole or any portion of the decision shall come into force on, or remain in force until, a specified day, the occurrence of a specified event, the fulfilment of a specified condition, or the performance to the satisfaction of the Commission, or of a person named by it, of a requirement imposed on any interested person.

  * ###### Marginal note:Interim decisions

(2) The Commission may make an interim decision and may make its final
decision effective from the day on which the interim decision came into
effect.

  * ###### Marginal note:_Ex parte_ decisions

(3) The Commission may make an ex parte decision where it considers that the
circumstances of the case justify it.

###### Marginal note:Review of decisions

**62.** The Commission may, on application or on its own motion, review and rescind or vary any decision made by it or re-hear a matter before rendering a decision.

###### Marginal note:Enforcement in Federal Court

  * **63.** (1) A decision of the Commission may be made an order of the Federal Court or of a superior court of a province and may be enforced in the same manner as an order of that court as if it had been an order of that court on the date of the decision.

  * ###### Marginal note:Procedure

(2) A decision of the Commission may be made an order of a court in accordance
with the usual practice and procedure of the court in such matters, if any, or
by the filing with the registrar of the court of a copy of the decision
certified by the secretary to the Commission.

  * ###### Marginal note:Effect of revocation or amendment

(3) Where a decision of the Commission that has been made an order of a court
is rescinded or varied by a subsequent decision of the Commission, the order
of the court is vacated and the decision of the Commission as varied may be
made an order of the court in accordance with subsection (2).

  * ###### Marginal note:Saving

(4) The Commission may enforce any of its decisions whether or not the
decision has been made an order of a court.

## Appeals

###### Marginal note:Appeal to Federal Court of Appeal

  * **64.** (1) An appeal from a decision of the Commission on any question of law or of jurisdiction may be brought in the Federal Court of Appeal with the leave of that Court.

  * ###### Marginal note:Application for leave

(2) Leave to appeal shall be applied for within thirty days after the date of
the decision appealed from or within such further time as a judge of the Court
grants in exceptional circumstances, and the costs of the application are in
the discretion of the Court.

  * ###### Marginal note:Notice

(3) Notice of an application for leave to appeal shall be served on the
Commission and on each party to the proceedings appealed from.

  * ###### Marginal note:Time limit for appeal

(4) An appeal shall be brought within sixty days after the day on which leave
to appeal is granted.

  * ###### Marginal note:Findings of fact

(5) On an appeal, the Court may draw any inference that is not inconsistent
with the findings of fact made by the Commission and that is necessary for
determining a question of law or jurisdiction.

  * ###### Marginal note:Argument by Commission

(6) The Commission is entitled to be heard on an application for leave to
appeal and at any stage of an appeal, but costs may not be awarded against it
or any of its members.

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 64;
  * 1999, c. 31, s. 206(F).

## Evidence

###### Marginal note:Judicial notice

**65.** A decision of the Commission or a tariff approved by the Commission that is published in the [Canada Gazette](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) by or with leave of the Commission shall be judicially noticed.

###### Marginal note:Business documents

  * **66.** (1) In proceedings under this Act, a document purporting to have been issued by a Canadian carrier or by an agent of a Canadian carrier is admissible in evidence against the carrier without proof of the issuance of the document by the carrier or the authenticity of its contents.

  * ###### Marginal note:Ministerial or Commission documents

(2) A document appearing to be signed by the Minister, the Chairperson of the
Commission or the secretary to the Commission is evidence of the official
character of the person appearing to have signed it and, in the case of the
Chairperson or secretary, of its issuance by the Commission, and if the
document appears to be a copy of a decision or report, it is evidence of its
contents.

  * ###### Marginal note:Copies

(3) A copy of a document submitted to the Commission and appearing to be
certified as a true copy by the secretary to the Commission is, without proof
of the secretary’s signature, evidence of the original, of its submission to
the Commission, of the date of its submission and of the signature of any
person appearing to have signed it.

  * ###### Marginal note:Certificate

(4) A certificate appearing to be signed by the secretary to the Commission
and bearing the Commission’s seal is evidence of its contents without proof of
the signature.

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 66;
  * 2001, c. 34, s. 32(E).

## Regulations

###### Marginal note:Regulations

  * **67.** (1) The Commission may make regulations

    * (_a_) prescribing standards governing the height of transmission lines of Canadian carriers, not inconsistent with standards prescribed under any other Act of Parliament;

    * (_b_) establishing rules respecting its practice and procedure;

    * (_b.1_) prescribing classes of international telecommunications service licences;

    * (_b.2_) requiring international telecommunications service licensees to publish their licences or otherwise make them available for public inspection;

    * (_c_) establishing the criteria for the awarding of costs; and

    * (_d_) generally for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act or any special Act.

  * ###### Marginal note:Application

(2) Regulations made by the Commission may be of general application or
applicable in respect of a particular case or class of cases.

  * ###### Marginal note:Incorporation by reference

(3) Regulations made by the Commission incorporating any standard or enactment
by reference may incorporate it as amended from time to time.

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 67;
  * 1998, c. 8, s. 7.

###### Marginal note:Regulations prescribing fees

  * **68.** (1) The Commission may, with the approval of the Treasury Board, make regulations prescribing fees, and respecting their calculation and payment, for the purpose of recovering all or a portion of the costs that the Commission determines to be attributable to its responsibilities under this Act or any special Act.

  * ###### Marginal note:Debt due to Her Majesty

(2) Fees required to be paid under this section constitute a debt due to Her
Majesty in right of Canada and may be recovered in a court of competent
jurisdiction.

###### Marginal note:Pre-publication of regulations

  * **69.** (1) Any regulations proposed to be made under section 67 or 68 shall be published in the [Canada Gazette](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) at least sixty days before their proposed effective date, and a reasonable opportunity shall be given to interested persons to make representations to the Commission with respect to the proposed regulations.

  * ###### Marginal note:Idem

(2) Proposed regulations that are modified after publication need not be
published again under subsection (1).

# PART IV.1TELECOMMUNICATIONS APPARATUS

## Application

###### Marginal note:Application

**69.1** This Part applies to telecommunications apparatus that can be

  * (_a_) connected to telecommunications networks of Canadian carriers; and

  * (_b_) used by a telecommunications service subscriber at their premises.

  * 1998, c. 8, s. 8.

## Prohibitions

###### Marginal note:Technical acceptance certificate

  * **69.2** (1) No person shall distribute, lease, offer for sale, sell or import any telecommunications apparatus for which a technical acceptance certificate is required under this Act, otherwise than in accordance with such a certificate.

  * ###### Marginal note:Specifications and markings

(2) No person shall distribute, lease, offer for sale, sell or import any
telecommunications apparatus for which technical specifications or markings
are required under paragraph 69.4(1)(_a_), unless the apparatus complies with
those requirements.

  * 1998, c. 8, s. 8.

## Minister’s Powers

###### Marginal note:Minister’s powers

  * **69.3** (1) Subject to any regulations made under section 69.4, the Minister may, taking into account all matters that the Minister considers relevant to further the Canadian telecommunications policy objectives,

    * (_a_) issue technical acceptance certificates in respect of telecommunications apparatus and fix the duration and conditions of any such certificate;

    * (_b_) change the duration and amend the conditions of certificates;

    * (_c_) make available to the public any information set out in certificates;

    * (_d_) establish technical specifications and markings in relation to telecommunications apparatus or any class of telecommunications apparatus;

    * (_e_) test telecommunications apparatus for compliance with technical specifications and markings required under this Part;

    * (_f_) require holders of, and applicants for, certificates to disclose to the Minister any information that the Minister considers appropriate respecting the present and proposed use of the telecommunications apparatus in question;

    * (_g_) require holders of certificates to inform the Minister of any material changes in information disclosed under paragraph (_f_);

    * (_h_) appoint inspectors for the purposes of this Part; and

    * (_i_) do any other thing necessary for the effective administration of this Part.

  * ###### Marginal note:Delegation of powers

(2) The Minister may authorize any person to perform such powers on behalf of
the Minister under paragraph (1)(_a_) as the Minister may determine and
subject to the conditions that the Minister may fix.

  * ###### Marginal note:Suspension or revocation of certificate

(3) The Minister may suspend or revoke a certificate

    * (_a_) with the consent of the holder of the certificate;

    * (_b_) after giving written notice to the holder and giving the holder a reasonable opportunity to make representations to the Minister with respect to the notice, if the Minister is satisfied that

      * (i) the holder has contravened this Part, the regulations or the conditions of the certificate, or

      * (ii) the certificate was obtained through misrepresentation; or

    * (_c_) on giving written notice of suspension or revocation to the holder, without having to give the holder an opportunity to make representations to the Minister with respect to the notice, if the holder has failed to comply with a request to pay fees or interest due.

  * 1998, c. 8, s. 8.

## Powers of Governor in Council and Others

###### Marginal note:Regulations

  * **69.4** (1) The Governor in Council may make regulations

    * (_a_) respecting requirements for technical specifications and markings in relation to telecommunications apparatus or any class of telecommunications apparatus;

    * (_b_) prescribing telecommunications apparatus, or classes of telecommunications apparatus, in respect of which a technical acceptance certificate is required;

    * (_c_) respecting the inspection, testing and approval of telecommunications apparatus in relation to technical acceptance certificates;

    * (_d_) prescribing the form of technical acceptance certificates or markings, or any class of certificates or markings;

    * (_e_) prescribing the procedure governing applications for technical acceptance certificates, or any class of certificates, and the issuing of certificates by the Minister;

    * (_f_) prescribing the conditions of technical acceptance certificates, including conditions as to the services that may be provided by the holder of a certificate;

    * (_g_) prescribing the eligibility and qualifications of persons who may be appointed as inspectors, and the duties of inspectors;

    * (_h_) for giving effect to international agreements, conventions or treaties respecting telecommunications apparatus to which Canada is a party;

    * (_i_) prescribing fees for technical acceptance certificates, applications for certificates and examinations or testing in relation to certificates, and respecting interest payable on unpaid fees;

    * (_j_) prescribing anything that by this Part is to be prescribed; and

    * (_k_) generally for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Part.

  * ###### Marginal note:Incorporation by reference

(2) For greater certainty, a regulation made under subsection (1)
incorporating by reference a classification, standard, procedure or other
specification may incorporate the classification, standard, procedure or
specification as amended from time to time.

  * 1998, c. 8, s. 8.

###### Marginal note:Powers of inspectors

  * **69.5** (1) Subject to subsection (2), an inspector appointed under paragraph 69.3(1)(_h_) may, at any reasonable time, for the purpose of enforcing this Part,

    * (_a_) enter any place of business that the inspector believes on reasonable grounds is being used to distribute, lease, offer for sale, sell or import any telecommunications apparatus referred to in section 69.2;

    * (_b_) examine any telecommunications apparatus found in a place referred to in paragraph (_a_); and

    * (_c_) examine any logs, books, reports, test data, records, shipping bills, bills of lading or other documents or papers found in a place referred to in paragraph (_a_) that the inspector believes on reasonable grounds contain information relevant to the enforcement of this Part, and make copies of, or take extracts from, them.

  * ###### Marginal note:Assistance to inspectors

(2) The owner or person in charge of a place entered by an inspector shall
give the inspector all reasonable assistance to enable the inspector to carry
out the inspector’s duties under this Part, and shall give the inspector any
information that the inspector reasonably requests.

  * ###### Marginal note:Obstruction, false information

(3) When an inspector is carrying out duties under this Part, no person shall

    * (_a_) resist or wilfully obstruct the inspector; or

    * (_b_) knowingly make a false or misleading statement, either orally or in writing, to the inspector.

  * 1998, c. 8, s. 8.

# PART VINVESTIGATION AND ENFORCEMENT

## Inquiries

###### Marginal note:Appointment by Commission

  * **70.** (1) The Commission may appoint any person to inquire into and report to the Commission on any matter

    * (_a_) pending before the Commission or within the Commission’s jurisdiction under this Act or any special Act; or

    * (_b_) on which the Commission is required to report under section 14.

  * ###### Marginal note:Appointment by Minister

(2) The Minister may, with the approval of the Governor in Council, appoint
any person to inquire into and report to the Minister on any matter in respect
of which this Act or any special Act applies, and a copy of the report shall
be sent to the Commission.

  * ###### Marginal note:Powers

(3) For the purposes of an inquiry, a person appointed under this section has
all the powers of a Commissioner under Part I of the [Inquiries
Act](/eng/acts/I-11) and of an inspector under subsection 71(4).

  * ###### Marginal note:Disclosure

(4) The rules in section 39 respecting the designation and disclosure of
information apply in respect of any information submitted to a person, or
obtained in proceedings before a person, appointed under this section as if
that person were a member of the Commission exercising the powers of the
Commission.

  * ###### Marginal note:_In camera_ hearings

(5) The rules in section 54 respecting in camera hearings apply in hearings
held before a person appointed under this section.

## Inspection

###### Marginal note:Designation of inspectors

  * **71.** (1) The Commission may designate any qualified person as an inspector for the purpose of verifying compliance with the provisions of this Act or any special Act for which the Commission is responsible and with the decisions of the Commission under this Act.

  * ###### Marginal note:Idem

(2) The Minister may designate any qualified person as an inspector for the
purpose of verifying compliance with the provisions of this Act for which the
Minister is responsible.

  * ###### Marginal note:Certificate

(3) An inspector shall be provided with a certificate of designation, which
certificate the inspector shall present at the request of any person appearing
to be in charge of any place entered by the inspector.

  * ###### Marginal note:Powers of inspectors

(4) An inspector may, for the purposes for which the inspector was designated
an inspector,

    * (_a_) subject to subsection (5), enter and inspect, at any reasonable time, any place owned by or under the control of any Canadian carrier in which the inspector believes on reasonable grounds there is any document, information or thing relevant to the enforcement of this Act or any special Act, and examine the document, information or thing or remove it for examination or reproduction;

    * (_b_) make use of or cause to be made use of any data processing system at the place to examine any data contained in or available to the system;

    * (_c_) reproduce any record or cause it to be reproduced from the data in the form of a print-out or other intelligible output and take the print-out or other output for examination or copying; and

    * (_d_) make use of any copying equipment or means of communication located at the place.

  * ###### Marginal note:Warrant required to enter dwelling-place

(5) An inspector may not enter a dwelling-place except with the consent of the
occupant or under the authority of a warrant issued under subsection (6).

  * ###### Marginal note:Authority to issue warrant

(6) Where on ex parte application a justice, as defined in section 2 of the
[Criminal Code](/eng/acts/C-46), is satisfied by information on oath

    * (_a_) that a dwelling-place is a place described in paragraph (4)(_a_),

    * (_b_) that entry to the dwelling-place is necessary for the enforcement of this Act or any special Act, and

    * (_c_) that entry has been refused, there are reasonable grounds for believing that entry will be refused, or consent to entry cannot be obtained from the occupant,

the justice may issue a warrant authorizing an inspector named in the warrant
to enter the dwelling-place, subject to any conditions specified in the
warrant.

  * ###### Marginal note:Use of force

(7) An inspector executing a warrant issued under subsection (6) shall not use
force unless the inspector is accompanied by a peace officer and the use of
force has been specifically authorized in the warrant.

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 71;
  * 1999, c. 31, s. 207(F).

## Civil Liability

###### Marginal note:Damages

  * **72.** (1) Subject to any limitation of liability imposed in accordance with this or any other Act, a person who has sustained loss or damage as a result of any act or omission that is contrary to this Act or any special Act or a decision or regulation made under either of them may, in a court of competent jurisdiction, sue for and recover an amount equal to the loss or damage from any person who engaged in, directed, authorized, consented to or participated in the act or omission.

  * ###### Marginal note:Limitation

(2) An action may not be brought in respect of any loss or damage referred to
in subsection (1) more than two years after the day on which the act or
omission occurred.

  * ###### Marginal note:Exception

(3) Nothing in subsection (1) or (2) applies to any action for breach of a
contract to provide telecommunications services or any action for damages in
relation to a rate charged by a Canadian carrier.

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 72;
  * 2001, c. 4, s. 122(F).

## Offences

###### Marginal note:Offences

  * **73.** (1) Every person who contravenes subsection 16(4) or 16.1(1) or (2) or section 17 is guilty of an offence punishable on summary conviction and liable

    * (_a_) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand dollars for a first offence, or one hundred thousand dollars for a subsequent offence; or

    * (_b_) in the case of a corporation, to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand dollars for a first offence, or one million dollars for a subsequent offence.

  * ###### Marginal note:Idem

(2) Every person who

    * (_a_) contravenes section 25, subsection 27(1) or (2) or section 69.2,

    * (_b_) contravenes any condition referred to in section 9 or 24 or subsection 34(1) or (2),

    * (_c_) contravenes any prohibition or requirement of the Commission under section 41, or

    * (_d_) knowingly makes a material misrepresentation of fact or omits to state a material fact to the Minister, the Commission, a person appointed under section 70 or an inspector appointed under paragraph 69.3(1)(_h_) or section 71

is guilty of an offence punishable on summary conviction and liable, in the
case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding ten thousand dollars for a
first offence or twenty-five thousand dollars for a subsequent offence, and in
the case of a corporation, to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand
dollars for a first offence or two hundred and fifty thousand dollars for a
subsequent offence.

  * ###### Marginal note:Idem

(3) Every person who

    * (_a_) contravenes any other provision of this Act or any special Act or any regulation or decision made under this Act, or

    * (_b_) fails to do anything required or does anything prohibited under a provision, regulation or decision referred to in paragraph (_a_)

is guilty of an offence punishable on summary conviction and liable, in the
case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars for a
first offence or ten thousand dollars for a subsequent offence, and in the
case of a corporation, to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand dollars for a
first offence or one hundred thousand dollars for a subsequent offence.

  * ###### Marginal note:Consent of Minister required

(4) A prosecution may not be commenced under this section in respect of a
contravention of any provision of Part I, of section 17, of Part IV.1 or of
any regulations made under subsection 22(2) or section 69.4, or in respect of
a material misrepresentation of fact or an omission to state a material fact
to the Minister, without the consent of the Minister.

  * ###### Marginal note:Consent of Commission required

(5) A prosecution may not be commenced in respect of any other offence without
the consent of the Commission.

  * ###### Marginal note:Time limit

(6) A prosecution may not be commenced under this Act later than two years
after the occurrence of the act or omission that is the subject-matter of the
proceedings.

  * ###### Marginal note:Injunctions

(7) If a court of competent jurisdiction is satisfied, on application by the
Minister, that a contravention of section 69.2 is being or is likely to be
committed, the court may grant an injunction, subject to any conditions that
the court considers appropriate, ordering any person to cease or refrain from
any activity related to that offence.

  * ###### Marginal note:Federal Court

(8) For the purposes of subsection (7), the Federal Court is a court of
competent jurisdiction.

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 73;
  * 1998, c. 8, s. 9;
  * 2002, c. 17, s. 30.

###### Marginal note:Continuing offence

**74.** Where an offence under section 73 is committed or continued on more than one day, the person who committed the offence is liable to be convicted for a separate offence for each day on which the offence is committed or continued.

## Forfeiture

###### Marginal note:Forfeiture of telecommunications apparatus

  * **74.1** (1) In the case of a conviction for an offence arising out of a contravention of subsection 69.2(1) or (2), any telecommunications apparatus in relation to which or by means of which the offence was committed may be forfeited to Her Majesty in right of Canada by order of the Minister for the disposition, subject to subsections (2) to (6), that the Minister may direct.

  * ###### Marginal note:Notice of forfeiture

(2) If apparatus is ordered to be forfeited under subsection (1), the Minister
shall cause a notice of the forfeiture to be published in the [Canada
Gazette](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/).

  * ###### Marginal note:Application by person claiming interest

(3) Any person, other than a party to the proceedings that resulted in a
forfeiture under subsection (1), who claims an interest in the apparatus as
owner, mortgagee, hypothecary creditor, holder of a prior claim, lien holder
or holder of any like right or interest may, within ninety days after the
making of the order of forfeiture, apply to any superior court of competent
jurisdiction for an order under subsection (6), in which case the court shall
fix a day for the hearing of the application.

  * ###### Marginal note:Notice

(4) The court may find the application abandoned if the applicant does not, at
least thirty days before the day fixed for the hearing of the application,
serve a notice of the application and of the hearing on the Minister and on
all other persons claiming an interest in the apparatus that is the subject-
matter of the application as owner, mortgagee, hypothecary creditor, holder of
a prior claim, lien holder or holder of any like right or interest of whom the
applicant has knowledge.

  * ###### Marginal note:Notice of intervention

(5) Every person, other than the Minister, who is served with a notice under
subsection (4) must, in order to appear at the hearing of the application,
file an appropriate notice of intervention in the record of the court and
serve a copy of that notice on the Minister and on the applicant at least ten
days before the day fixed for the hearing or any shorter period that the court
may allow.

  * ###### Marginal note:Order declaring nature and extent of interests

(6) An applicant or intervener is entitled to an order declaring that their
interest is not affected by the forfeiture and declaring the nature and extent
of their interest and the priority of their interest in relation to other
interests recognized under this subsection, and the court may, in addition,
order that the apparatus to which the interests relate be delivered to one or
more of the persons found to have an interest in the apparatus, or that an
amount equal to the value of each of the interests so declared be paid to the
persons found to have those interests, if, on the hearing of an application
under this section, the court is satisfied that the applicant or intervener

    * (_a_) is innocent of any complicity and collusion in any conduct that caused the apparatus to be subject to forfeiture; and

    * (_b_) in the case of owners, exercised all reasonable care in respect of the persons permitted to obtain possession and use of the apparatus to satisfy themselves that it was not likely to be used in the commission of an offence arising out of a contravention of section 69.2.

  * ###### Marginal note:Liability for costs

(7) Any persons convicted in respect of the forfeited apparatus are jointly
and severally, or solidarily, liable for all the costs of inspection, seizure,
forfeiture or disposition incurred by Her Majesty that exceed any proceeds of
the disposition of the apparatus that have been forfeited to Her Majesty under
this section.

  * 1998, c. 8, s. 10;
  * 2001, c. 4, s. 123.

# PART VITRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

###### Marginal note:Directive for transitional period

  * **75.** (1) The Governor in Council may, after consultation with the Commission, issue to the Commission directives respecting the regulation, during any period ending five years after this section comes into force, of a Canadian carrier whose telecommunications operations were not, immediately before this section comes into force, being regulated pursuant to any Act of Parliament, but not more than one such directive may be issued in respect of any one Canadian carrier.

  * ###### Marginal note:Implementation by Commission

(2) The Commission shall carry out the directives, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.

  * ###### Marginal note:Tabling in Parliament

(3) The Minister shall have a copy of each directive laid before each House of
Parliament on any of the first fifteen days on which that House is sitting
after the directive is issued.

###### Marginal note:Deemed approval

  * **76.** (1) An agreement or arrangement referred to in section 29 or a limitation of liability referred to in section 31 that was entered into or imposed, respectively, by a Canadian carrier in conformity with provincial law while the carrier’s operations were not being regulated under an Act of Parliament, and that is in effect on the coming into force of this section, shall be deemed to have been approved pursuant to section 29 or 31.

  * ###### Marginal note:Deemed permission

(2) A transmission line that was constructed by a Canadian carrier on, over,
under or along a highway or other public place while the carrier’s operations
were not being regulated under an Act of Parliament shall be deemed to have
been constructed with the consent referred to in subsection 43(3).

  * 1993, c. 38, s. 76;
  * 1999, c. 31, s. 208(F).

# PART VIIRELATED AMENDMENTS, REPEALS, APPLICATION OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS AND
COMING INTO FORCE

## Related Amendments

**77\. to 129.** [Amendments]

## Repeals

**130\. and 131.** [Repeals]

## Application of Certain Provisions

###### Marginal note:Agent of Her Majesty in right of Manitoba

**132.** Where a day is fixed for the coming into force of section 3, 88, 89 or 90, that section does not apply in relation to any Canadian carrier that is an agent of Her Majesty in right of the Province of Manitoba until December 31, 1993, or such earlier day as is fixed by the Governor in Council at the written request of the Government of Manitoba.

###### Marginal note:Agent of Her Majesty in right of Saskatchewan

**Footnote *133.** Where a day is fixed for the coming into force of section 3, 88, 89 or 90, that section does not apply in relation to any Canadian carrier that is an agent of Her Majesty in right of the Province of Saskatchewan until a day to be fixed for that purpose by the Governor in Council on the expiration of five years after that section comes into force, or such earlier day as is fixed by the Governor in Council at the written request of the Government of Saskatchewan.

  * Return to footnote *[Note: Sections 3, 88, 89 and 90 shall apply in relation to any Canadian carrier that is an agent of Her Majesty in right of the Province of Saskatchewan as of June 30, 2000, _see_ SI/98-109.]

## Coming into Force

###### Marginal note:Coming into force

**Footnote *134.** This Act or any provision thereof shall come into force on a day or days to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

  * Return to footnote *[Note: Act in force October 25, 1993, _see_ SI/93-101.]

  * Telecommunications Act
    * 1 - SHORT TITLE
    * 2 - PART I \- GENERAL
      * 2 - Interpretation
      * 3 - Her Majesty
      * 4 - Application
      * 7 - Canadian Telecommunications Policy
      * 8 - Powers of Governor in Council, Commission and Minister
    * 16 - PART II \- ELIGIBILITY TO OPERATE
      * 16 - Canadian Ownership and Control
      * 16.1 - International Telecommunications Services Licences
      * 17 - International Submarine Cable Licences
      * 21 - Documentary Evidence
      * 22 - Regulations
    * 23 - PART III \- RATES, FACILITIES AND SERVICES
      * 23 - Provision of Services
      * 34 - Forbearance
      * 35 - Order to Provide Services
      * 36 - Content of Messages
      * 37 - Provision of Information
      * 40 - Connection of Facilities
      * 41 - Unsolicited Telecommunications
      * 42 - Construction and Expropriation Powers
      * 46.1 - Telecommunications Numbering and Other Matters
    * 47 - PART IV \- ADMINISTRATION
      * 47 - Exercise of Powers
      * 58 - Guidelines and Advice
      * 60 - Decisions of Commission
      * 64 - Appeals
      * 65 - Evidence
      * 67 - Regulations
    * 69.1 - PART IV.1 \- TELECOMMUNICATIONS APPARATUS
      * 69.1 - Application
      * 69.2 - Prohibitions
      * 69.3 - Minister’s Powers
      * 69.4 - Powers of Governor in Council and Others
    * 70 - PART V \- INVESTIGATION AND ENFORCEMENT
      * 70 - Inquiries
      * 71 - Inspection
      * 72 - Civil Liability
      * 73 - Offences
      * 74.1 - Forfeiture
    * 75 - PART VI \- TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
    * 77\. to 129 - PART VII \- RELATED AMENDMENTS, REPEALS, APPLICATION OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS AND COMING INTO FORCE
      * 77\. to 129 - Related Amendments
      * 130\. and 131 - Repeals
      * 132 - Application of Certain Provisions
      * 134 - Coming into Force

Date modified:

    2015-06-04

## Secondary menu

### Laws

  * [Constitutional Documents](/eng/Const/Const_index.html)
  * [Consolidated Acts](/eng/acts/)
  * [Consolidated Regulations](/eng/regulations/)
  * [Annual Statutes](/eng/AnnualStatutes/index.html)
  * [Statutes Repeal Act: Reports and Repeals](/eng/Reports/)
  * [Miscellaneous Statute Law Amendment Program](/eng/MSLA/)

### Search

  * [Basic Search](/Search/Search.aspx)
  * [Advanced Search](/Search/Advanced.aspx)

### Resources

  * [Table of Public Statutes and Responsible Ministers](/eng/TablePublicStatutes/index.html)
  * [Table of Private Acts](/eng/TablePrivateActs/index.html)
  * [Consolidated Index of Statutory Instruments](/eng/IndexStatutoryInstruments)
  * [Related Resources](/eng/RelatedResources)

### Help

  * [Accessibility](/eng/Accessibility)
  * [FAQ](/eng/FAQ)
  * [General](/eng/GeneralHelp)
  * [Search Help](/eng/SearchHelp)
  * [PDF Help](/eng/PDFHelp)
  * [How to Create Stable Links](/eng/LinkingGuide)
  * [Printing](/eng/Printing)
  * [Glossary](/eng/Glossary)
  * [Important Note](/eng/ImportantNote)

## Footer

### Site footer

  * [Terms and conditions](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/terms-avis/index.html)
  * [Transparency](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/trans/index.html)

#### [Contact us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/index.html)

  * [Policy on Legal Assistance](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm4.html)
  * [Service on the Crown ](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm3.html)
  * [Guide to Canadian Legal Information](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm2.html)
  * [Help](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/help-aide.html)
  * [Helpful Links](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/link-lien.html)

#### [About us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/index.html)

  * [The Minister and Attorney General](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/mag-mpg.html)
  * [Organization](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/org.html)
  * [Acts and Regulations](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/trans/ar-lr/index.html)
  * [Careers and Articling ](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/recru/index.html)
  * [Reports and Publications](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/rp-pr/index.html)
  * [Sustainable Development](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/sd-dd/index.html)

#### [News](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/index.html)

  * [News Releases](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=1&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=26&crtr.mnthStrtVl=2&crtr.yrStrtVl=2008&crtr.dyndVl=31&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Backgrounders](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=930&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=26&crtr.mnthStrtVl=2&crtr.yrStrtVl=2008&crtr.dyndVl=27&crtr.mnthndVl=3&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Judicial Appointments](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/ja-nj.asp?tid=4)
  * [Speeches](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=970&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=21&crtr.mnthStrtVl=1&crtr.yrStrtVl=2002&crtr.dyndVl=21&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Media Notices](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=3&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=9&crtr.mnthStrtVl=1&crtr.yrStrtVl=2012&crtr.dyndVl=9&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Photo Gallery](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/photo/index.html)

#### [Stay connected](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/connect-branches.html)

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [RSS](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/rss.html)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/user/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [Public Consultations](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cons/index.html)

### Government of Canada footer

  * [Health](http://healthycanadians.gc.ca/index-eng.php)
  * [Travel](http://www.travel.gc.ca/index-eng.asp)
  * [Service Canada](http://www.servicecanada.gc.ca/eng/home.shtml)
  * [Jobs](http://www.jobbank.gc.ca/intro-eng.aspx)
  * [Economy](http://actionplan.gc.ca/eng/index.asp)
  * [Canada.ca](http://www.canada.ca/en/index.html)

![DCSIMG](//j1.justice.gc.ca/dcs7902nd5ihvq0jmbpwr0wnu_8j4x/njs.gif?dcsuri=/no
javascript&WT.js=No&WT.tv=9.4.0&dcssip=www.laws-lois.justice.gc.ca)

  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada

