# Freshwater Fish Marketing Act

R.S.C., 1985, c. F-13

An Act to establish the Freshwater Fish Marketing Corporation and to regulate interprovincial and export trade in freshwater fish

## SHORT TITLE

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Freshwater Fish Marketing Act](/canada/eng/acts/F/F-13.md).

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 1.

## INTERPRETATION

###### Definitions

**2.** In this Act,

**“Board”** - _« conseil »_

    

“Board” means the Board of Directors of the Corporation;

**“Chairman”**

    

“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Board;

**“container”** - _« emballage »_

    

“container” includes any type of receptacle, package, wrapper or confining band, used in packing or marketing fish;

**“Corporation”** - _« Office »_

    

“Corporation” means the Freshwater Fish Marketing Corporation established by subsection 3(1);

**“Minister”** - _« ministre »_

    

“Minister” means such member of the Queen’s Privy Council for Canada as is designated by the Governor in Council as the Minister for the purposes of this Act;

**“participating province”** - _« province participante »_

    

“participating province” means a province in respect of which there is in force an agreement entered into under section 24 with the government of that province;

**“President”** - _« président »_

    

“President” means the President of the Corporation.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 2.

## PART I - FRESHWATER FISH MARKETING CORPORATION

## Constitution of the Corporation

###### Corporation established

**3.** (1) A corporation is hereby established, to be known as the Freshwater Fish Marketing Corporation, consisting of a Board of Directors composed of a Chairman, a President, one director for each participating province and four other directors.

###### Appointment of Chairman and President

(2) The Chairman and the President shall each be appointed by the Governor in Council to hold office during pleasure for such term as the Governor in Council considers appropriate.

###### Appointment of directors

(3) Each director, other than the Chairman and the President, shall be appointed by the Minister, with the approval of the Governor in Council, to hold office during pleasure for such term not exceeding three years as will ensure, as far as possible, the expiration in any one year of the terms of office of not more than one-half of the directors.

###### Appointment

(4) A director of the Corporation for a participating province shall be appointed on the recommendation of the lieutenant governor in council of the participating province.

###### Eligibility

(5) A person who has reached the age of seventy years is not eligible to be appointed a director of the Corporation and a director of the Corporation ceases to hold office on reaching the age of seventy years.

###### Re-appointment

(6) A director of the Corporation on the expiration of that director’s term of office is, if not disqualified by age, eligible for re-appointment.

###### Vacancies

(7) A vacancy on the Board does not impair the right of the remaining directors of the Corporation to act, but where the vacancy relates to the office of a director for a participating province, it shall be filled as soon as practicable in the manner provided in this section.

###### Temporary substitute directors

(8) If any director of the Corporation, other than the Chairman or the President, is absent or unable to act, the Governor in Council may appoint a temporary substitute director on such conditions as the Governor in Council prescribes.

  * R.S., 1985, c. F-13, s. 3;
  * R.S., 1985, c. 1 (4th Supp.), s. 44(E).

###### Chairman to preside at meetings

**4.** The Chairman shall preside at meetings of the Board, but in the event of the absence or incapacity of the Chairman, or if the office of Chairman is vacant, the President shall preside at those meetings.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 4.

###### Management vested in President

**5.** (1) The President is the chief executive officer of the Corporation and the general manager of its undertakings and has on behalf of the Board the direction and control of the business of the Corporation with authority to act in the conduct of the business of the Corporation in all matters that are not by this Act or by the by-laws of the Board specifically reserved to be done by the Board.

###### Absence or incapacity of President

(2) In the event of the absence or incapacity of the President, or if the office of President is vacant, the Board shall authorize an officer or director of the Corporation to act as President for the time being, but no person so authorized by the Board has authority to act as President for a period exceeding sixty days without the approval of the Governor in Council.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 5.

###### Salaries and fees

**6.** (1) The President shall be paid by the Corporation a salary to be fixed by the Governor in Council and the Chairman and the other directors of the Corporation other than the President shall be paid by the Corporation such fees for attendances at meetings of the Board or any committee thereof as are fixed by the Governor in Council.

###### Expenses

(2) Each director of the Corporation is entitled to be paid by the Corporation such travel and living expenses incurred by the director in the performance of his duties as are fixed by by-law of the Board.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 6;
  * 1984, c. 31, s. 14.

## Purpose and Powers

###### Purpose and powers

**7.** The Corporation is established for the purpose of marketing and trading in fish, fish products and fish by-products in and outside Canada and, in addition to the powers conferred by other provisions of this Act and by any other Act, has for that purpose power to

  * (_a_) buy fish and dress, fillet, freeze, package or otherwise prepare fish for market;

  * (_b_) buy, manufacture or produce fish products and fish by-products and package or otherwise prepare fish products and fish by-products for market;

  * (_c_) store, ship, insure, import, export, market, sell or otherwise dispose of fish, fish products and fish by-products bought, prepared, manufactured or produced by it;

  * (_d_) purchase, lease or otherwise acquire and hold, sell or otherwise deal with any real property;

  * (_e_) establish branches or employ agents in Canada or elsewhere;

  * (_f_) invest any money in its possession or under its control that in its opinion is not immediately required for the purposes of its operations, in securities of or guaranteed by the Government of Canada and sell any securities so acquired by it and reinvest the proceeds or any part of the proceeds thereof in like manner;

  * (_g_) borrow money from any bank on the credit of the Corporation;

  * (_h_) make loans of working capital on a seasonal basis to persons engaged in fishing for commercial purposes in a participating province; and

  * (_i_) do all such other things as are necessary or incidental to the exercise of any of its powers or the carrying out of any of its functions under this Act.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 7;
  * 1984, c. 31, s. 14.

###### Acceptance and exercise of additional powers

**8.** The Corporation may enter into and carry out arrangements with any government or person that the Corporation deems necessary or desirable in furtherance of the purpose for which it is established, and may receive and exercise any grants, rights, franchises, privileges and concessions that may be granted to or conferred on it by any government or person.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 8.

## Organization and Staff

###### Employment of staff

**9.** (1) The Corporation may employ such officers and employees as it considers necessary for the proper conduct of its activities.

###### Terms and conditions of employment

(2) The Board may by by-law prescribe the duties of the officers and employees of the Corporation and the terms and conditions of their employment.

###### Remuneration

(3) The persons employed pursuant to subsection (1) shall be paid by the Corporation such remuneration as is fixed by by-law of the Board.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 9.

###### Application of certain Acts and regulations

**10.** (1) The President and the officers and employees of the Corporation shall be deemed to be employed in the Public Service for the purposes of the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/canada/eng/acts/P/P-36.md) and the Corporation shall be deemed to be a Public Service corporation for the purposes of section 37 of that Act.

###### Idem

(2) For the purposes of the [Government Employees Compensation Act](/canada/eng/acts/G/G-5.md) and any regulation made pursuant to section 9 of the [Aeronautics Act](/canada/eng/acts/A/A-2.md), the President and the officers and employees of the Corporation shall be deemed to be employed in the public service of Canada.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 10.

###### Directors, officers and employees not part of public service

**11.** Except as provided in section 10, a director or an officer or employee of the Corporation is not in that capacity part of the public service of Canada.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 11.

## General

###### Board may make by-laws

**12.** The Board may make by-laws

  * (_a_) respecting the calling of meetings of the Board;

  * (_b_) respecting the conduct of business at meetings of the Board and the establishment of committees thereof, the delegation of duties to those committees and the fixing of quorums for meetings of the Board and committees thereof;

  * (_c_) subject to the approval of the Treasury Board, fixing the travel and living expenses to be paid to the directors of the Corporation;

  * (_d_) respecting the duties and conduct of the directors of the Corporation; and

  * (_e_) generally, for the conduct and management of the affairs of the Corporation.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 12;
  * 1984, c. 31, s. 14.

###### Head office

**13.** The head office of the Corporation shall be at the city of Winnipeg or in the immediate vicinity thereof, in the Province of Manitoba, but meetings of the Board may be held at such other places in Canada as the Board may determine.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 13.

###### Agent of Her Majesty

**14.** The Corporation is for all purposes of this Act an agent of Her Majesty in right of Canada.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 14;
  * 1984, c. 31, s. 14.

###### Conduct of financial operations

**15.** (1) The Corporation shall conduct its operations on a self-sustaining financial basis without appropriations therefor by Parliament.

###### Payments in lieu of land taxes

(2) The Corporation may make grants in lieu of taxes to any municipality in Canada not exceeding the taxes that might be levied by the municipality in respect of any lands of the Corporation if the Corporation were not an agent of Her Majesty.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 15;
  * 1976-77, c. 10, s. 50;
  * 1984, c. 31, s. 14.

## Financial

###### Minister of Finance may guarantee borrowing by and make loans to Corporation

**16.** (1) For the purpose of enabling the Corporation to carry on its operations under this Act, the Governor in Council may authorize the Minister of Finance, on such terms and conditions as may be agreed on,

  * (_a_) to guarantee repayment of loans, and interest thereon, made by any bank to the Corporation; and

  * (_b_) to make loans to the Corporation.

###### Limitation

(2) The aggregate outstanding at any time of the amounts borrowed by the Corporation pursuant to paragraph 7(_g_) and the amounts lent by the Minister of Finance under this section shall not exceed thirty million dollars.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 17;
  * 1970-71-72, c. 4, Sch. A (DFF) vote L20a;
  * 1974, c. 1, Sch. (DOE) vote L30b;
  * 1984, c. 43, s. 1.

## PART II - ADVISORY COMMITTEE

###### Appointment of Advisory Committee

**17.** (1) The Governor in Council shall appoint an Advisory Committee consisting of not more than fifteen members, one of whom shall be designated by the Governor in Council to be the Chairman of the Advisory Committee, and at least one-third of whom shall be persons, or representative of persons, actively engaged in the freshwater fishing industry as fishermen.

###### Term of appointment

(2) Each of the members of the Advisory Committee shall be appointed for a term not exceeding five years, and of those members first appointed five shall be appointed for a term of two years and five for a term of four years.

###### Re-appointment

(3) A member of the Advisory Committee is, on the expiration of his term of office, eligible for re-appointment.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 18.

###### Committee to advise Corporation

**18.** (1) The Advisory Committee shall meet at such times as are fixed by the Board and shall advise the Corporation on such matters relating to trading and dealing in fish, fish products or fish by-products as are referred to it by the Board.

###### Remuneration and expenses

(2) The members of the Advisory Committee may be paid by the Corporation for their services such remuneration and expenses as are fixed by the Governor in Council.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 19.

## PART III - REGULATION OF INTERPROVINCIAL AND EXPORT TRADE

## Interpretation

###### Definitions

**19.** In this Part, except section 30,

“fish”

« poisson »

    

“fish” means round, dressed or filleted fish of any species enumerated in the schedule, whether fresh or frozen and whether packaged or unpackaged, that are fished for commercial purposes in a participating province, and includes parts of any such fish;

“fisherman”

« pêcheur »

    

“fisherman” means a person licensed pursuant to the [Fisheries Act](/canada/eng/acts/F/F-14.md) or the regulations thereunder to fish for commercial purposes in a participating province, and includes any person acting on behalf of and representing any two or more persons so licensed.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 20.

## Interprovincial and Export Trade

###### Trade in fish

**20.** (1) Except in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in any licence that may be issued by the Corporation in that behalf, no person, other than the Corporation or an agent of the Corporation, shall

  * (_a_) export fish from Canada;

  * (_b_) send, convey or carry fish from a participating province to another participating province or to any other province;

  * (_c_) in a participating province, receive fish for conveyance or carriage to a destination outside the province; or

  * (_d_) sell or buy, or agree to sell or buy, fish situated in a participating province for delivery in another participating province or any other province, or outside Canada.

###### By-laws respecting licences

(2) The Board may, for the purposes of this section, make by-laws providing for the issue of licences by the Corporation and prescribing the form of and the terms and conditions to be set out in those licences.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 21.

## Regulations

###### Regulations

**21.** The Governor in Council may by regulation

  * (_a_) add to the schedule any species of fish that are fished in a participating province or delete from the schedule any species of fish enumerated therein; or

  * (_b_) exempt from the application of all or any of the provisions of this Part, either conditionally or unconditionally and either in general terms or for a specified period, any species of fish enumerated in the schedule, any area or region in a participating province or any transaction, person or class of transactions or persons.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 22.

## Duties and Powers of the Corporation

###### Corporation to undertake interprovincial and export marketing of fish

**22.** (1) Subject to section 20, the Corporation has the exclusive right to trade in and to market fish in interprovincial and export trade and shall exercise that right, either by itself or by its agents, with the object of

  * (_a_) marketing fish in an orderly manner;

  * (_b_) increasing returns to fishermen; and

  * (_c_) promoting international markets for, and increasing interprovincial and export trade in, fish.

###### Corporation to buy all fish offered

(2) All fish lawfully fished by a fisherman and offered by the fisherman for sale to the Corporation for disposal in interprovincial or export trade shall be bought by the Corporation from the fisherman on such terms and conditions and for such price as may be agreed on by the Corporation and the fisherman subject to any applicable scheme for payment established and operated by the Corporation pursuant to section 23.

###### Marketing of fish

(3) The Corporation shall determine the form in which fish bought by it pursuant to this section shall be marketed and shall carry out or cause to be carried out any processing or preparation for market that it deems necessary, and the Corporation shall market the fish at such times and places and in such manner as in its opinion will best achieve the attainment of the objects mentioned in subsection (1).

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 23.

###### Price systems and pooling authorized

**23.** The Corporation may develop, establish and operate schemes for payment for fish bought by it pursuant to this Part that provide for either or both

  * (_a_) a system of initial and final prices or payments; and

  * (_b_) the pooling of receipts for fish, including the operation of pool accounts, either generally or in relation to the area or region where the fish were fished, or the species, volume or quality of the fish sold to the Corporation, or on such other basis as the Corporation deems appropriate.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 24.

## Agreements Respecting Participation

Definition of “province to which this section applies”

**24.** (1) In this section, “province to which this section applies” means any of the following provinces or territories, namely, Ontario, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta, the Northwest Territories or Nunavut.

###### Participation agreements

(2) With the approval of the Governor in Council, the Minister may, on behalf of the Government of Canada, enter into an agreement with the government of any province to which this section applies, providing for

  * (_a_) the sharing by the province with the Government of Canada of initial operating and establishment expenses of the Corporation and of any losses incurred as a result of the guarantee, under paragraph 16(1)(_a_), of repayments of loans, and interest thereon, made by any bank to the Corporation;

  * (_b_) the performance by the Corporation, on behalf of the province, of functions relating to intraprovincial trade in fish;

  * (_c_) the undertaking by the province of arrangements for the payment, to the owner of any plant or equipment used in storing, processing or otherwise preparing fish for market, of compensation for any such plant or equipment that will or may be rendered redundant by reason of any operations authorized to be carried out by the Corporation under this Part; and

  * (_d_) such other matters as may be agreed on by the Minister and the government of the province.

  * R.S., 1985, c. F-13, s. 24;
  * 1993, c. 28, s. 78.

## Enforcement

###### Inspectors

**25.** (1) The Governor in Council may designate any qualified person as an inspector for the purposes of this Part.

###### Certificate to be produced

(2) An inspector shall be furnished with a certificate of his designation as an inspector and on entering any place, premises or conveyance referred to in subsection 26(1) shall, if so required, produce the certificate to the person in charge thereof.

  * R.S., c. F-13, ss. 26, 27.

###### Powers of inspectors

**26.** (1) Subject to subsection (1.1), an inspector may at any reasonable time

  * (_a_) enter any place or premises that the inspector believes on reasonable grounds is being used to store, pack, process or prepare fish for market or shipment or any vehicle, trailer, vessel, railway car or aircraft that the inspector believes on reasonable grounds is being used to ship or convey fish for market;

  * (_b_) open any container found therein or examine anything found therein that the inspector believes on reasonable grounds contains any such fish, and take samples thereof; and

  * (_c_) require any person to produce for inspection or for the purpose of obtaining copies thereof or extracts therefrom, any books, shipping bills, bills of lading, invoices or other documents or papers concerning any matter relevant to the administration of this Part.

###### Warrant required to enter dwelling-house

(1.1) Where any place or premises referred to in paragraph (1)(_a_) is a dwelling-house, an inspector may not enter that dwelling-house without the consent of the occupant except under the authority of a warrant issued under subsection (1.2).

###### Authority to issue warrant

(1.2) Where on ex parte application a justice of the peace is satisfied by information on oath

  * (_a_) that the conditions for entry described in paragraph (1)(_a_) exist in relation to a dwelling-house,

  * (_b_) that entry to the dwelling-house is necessary for any purpose relating to the administration or enforcement of this Act, and

  * (_c_) that entry to the dwelling-house has been refused or that there are reasonable grounds for believing that entry thereto will be refused,

the justice of the peace may issue a warrant under his hand authorizing the inspector named therein to enter that dwelling-house subject to such conditions as may be specified in the warrant.

###### Use of force

(1.3) In executing a warrant issued under subsection (1.2), the inspector named therein shall not use force unless the inspector is accompanied by a peace officer and the use of force has been specifically authorized in the warrant.

###### Assistance to inspectors

(2) The owner or person in charge of any place, premises or conveyance referred to in subsection (1) and every person found therein shall give an inspector all reasonable assistance to enable the inspector to carry out his duties and functions under this Part and shall furnish the inspector with any information he may reasonably require with respect to the administration of this Part.

  * R.S., 1985, c. F-13, s. 26;
  * R.S., 1985, c. 31 (1st Supp.), s. 12.

###### Seizure

**27.** (1) Where an inspector believes on reasonable grounds that any provision of this Part has been contravened, the inspector may seize and detain the fish by means of or in relation to which he believes on reasonable grounds the contravention was committed.

###### Detention

(2) Any fish seized and detained pursuant to subsection (1) shall not be detained after

  * (_a_) in the opinion of an inspector, the provisions of this Part have been complied with, or

  * (_b_) the expiration of ninety days after the date of seizure,

unless before that time proceedings have been instituted in respect of the contravention, in which event the fish may be detained until the proceedings are finally concluded.

###### Forfeiture

(3) Where a person has been convicted of a contravention of any provision of this Part, any fish by means of or in relation to which the offence was committed is, on the conviction, in addition to any punishment imposed, forfeited to Her Majesty if the forfeiture is directed by the court.

###### Regulations

(4) The Governor in Council may make regulations

  * (_a_) respecting the detention of fish seized under this section and for preserving or safeguarding the fish so detained; and

  * (_b_) respecting the disposition of fish forfeited under this section.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 28.

###### Obstruction and false statements

**28.** No person shall obstruct or hinder, or make a false or misleading statement either orally or in writing to, an inspector while the inspector is engaged in carrying out his duties or functions under this Part.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 29.

## Offences and Punishment

###### Contravention of this Part

**29.** (1) Every person who, or whose employee or agent, contravenes any provision of this Part

  * (_a_) is guilty of an indictable offence and liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years; or

  * (_b_) is guilty of an offence punishable on summary conviction.

###### Offence by employee or agent

(2) In any prosecution for an offence under this Part, it is sufficient proof of the offence to establish that it was committed by an employee or agent of the accused whether or not the employee or agent is identified or has been prosecuted for the offence, unless the accused establishes that the offence was committed without the knowledge or consent of the accused and that the accused exercised all due diligence to prevent its commission.

###### Limitation period

(3) Any proceedings by way of summary conviction in respect of an offence under this Part may be instituted at any time within but not later than one year after the time when the subject-matter of the proceedings arose.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 30.

###### Evidence with respect to geographical origin

**30.** In any prosecution for an offence under this Part, evidence that a container was marked in such a manner as to indicate or give rise to a reasonable belief that the fish contained therein were the product of or were fished in a particular participating province or a particular area or region in the province is, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, proof that the fish contained therein were fished in that province.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 31.

###### Venue

**31.** A complaint or information in respect of an offence under this Part may be heard, tried or determined by a provincial court judge or a justice if the accused is resident or carrying on business within the territorial jurisdiction of that provincial court judge or justice, although the matter of the complaint or information did not arise in that territorial jurisdiction.

  * R.S., 1985, c. F-13, s. 31;
  * R.S., 1985, c. 27 (1st Supp.), s. 203.

## PART IV - ANNUAL REPORT

###### Submission to lieutenant governors

**32.** The Corporation shall submit a copy of each annual report of the Corporation prepared in accordance with section 150 of the [Financial Administration Act](/canada/eng/acts/F/F-11.md) to the lieutenant governor in council of each participating province.

  * R.S., c. F-13, s. 33;
  * 1984, c. 31, s. 14.

## SCHEDULE - (Section 19)

_Species_| _Synonyms_  
---|---  
Arctic char (Salvelinus alpinus)| sea trout, ilkalu or ekaluk, Hudson Bay salmon  
Black bullhead (Ictalurus melas)| bullhead  
Brown bullhead (Ictalurus nebulosus)| bullhead  
Buffalofish (Ictiobus spp.)| buffalo  
Burbot (Lota lota)| ling, maria, eelpout, lawyer  
Carp (Cyprinus carpio)| —  
Channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus)| catfish  
Cisco (Leucichthys spp.)| tullibee, chub  
Coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch)| silver salmon, blueback salmon  
Goldeye (Hiodon alosoides)| —  
Inconnu (Stenodus leucichthys)| cony  
Lake trout (Christivomer namaycush)| trout, grey trout, salmon trout, siscowet  
Mooneye (Hiodon tergisus)| —  
Pike (Esox lucius)| pickerel (in United States), jackfish, northern pike  
Quillback (Carpiodes cyprinus)| white carp  
Rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri)| kamloops trout  
Redhorse (Moxostoma spp.)| “mullet”  
Sauger (Stizostedion canadense)| sauger pickerel, sand pickerel  
Sheepshead (Aplodinotus grunniens)| drum, sunfish, freshwater drum, silver bass  
Sturgeon (Acipenser fulvescens)| lake sturgeon, rock sturgeon  
Sucker (Catostomus spp.)| “mullet”  
Whitefish (Coregonus clupeaformis)| lake whitefish  
Yellow perch (Perca flavescens)| perch  
Yellow pickerel (Stizostedion vitreum)| pike (in United States), dore, walleye, yellow walleye, yellow pike-perch  
  
  * R.S., c. F-13, Sch.;
  * SOR/71-348.
  *[R.S.C.]: Revised Statutes of Canada
