# Transportation Appeal Tribunal of Canada Act

S.C. 2001, c. 29

Assented to 2001-12-18

An Act to establish the Transportation Appeal Tribunal of Canada and to make consequential amendments to other Acts

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

## SHORT TITLE

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Transportation Appeal Tribunal of Canada Act](/canada/eng/acts/T/T-18.5.md).

## TRANSPORTATION APPEAL TRIBUNAL OF CANADA

###### Establishment

**2.** (1) There is hereby established a tribunal to be known as the Transportation Appeal Tribunal of Canada (“the Tribunal”).

###### Jurisdiction generally

(2) The Tribunal has jurisdiction in respect of reviews and appeals as expressly provided for under the [Aeronautics Act](/canada/eng/acts/A/A-2.md), the [Canada Shipping Act, 2001](/canada/eng/acts/C/C-10.15.md), the [Marine Transportation Security Act](/canada/eng/acts/M/M-0.8.md), the [Railway Safety Act](/canada/eng/acts/R/R-4.2.md) and any other federal Act regarding transportation.

###### Jurisdiction in respect of other Acts

(3) The Tribunal also has jurisdiction in respect of reviews and appeals in connection with administrative monetary penalties provided for under sections 177 to 181 of the [Canada Transportation Act](/canada/eng/acts/C/C-10.4.md), sections 43 to 55 of the [International Bridges and Tunnels Act](/canada/eng/acts/I/I-17.05.md), sections 129.01 to 129.19 of the [Canada Marine Act](/canada/eng/acts/C/C-6.7.md) and sections 39.1 to 39.26 of the [Navigation Protection Act](/canada/eng/acts/N/N-22.md).

  * 2001, c. 29, ss. 2, 71;
  * 2007, c. 1, s. 59;
  * 2008, c. 21, s. 65;
  * 2012, c. 31, s. 345.

Previous Version

###### Members

**3.** (1) The Governor in Council shall appoint as members of the Tribunal persons who, in the opinion of the Governor in Council, collectively have expertise in the transportation sectors in respect of which the federal government has jurisdiction.

###### Full- or part-time members

(2) Members may be appointed as full-time or part-time members.

###### Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson

**4.** The Governor in Council shall designate one member as Chairperson of the Tribunal and one member as Vice-Chairperson. The Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson must be full-time members.

###### Duties of Chairperson

**5.** (1) The Chairperson is the chief executive officer of the Tribunal and has supervision over, and direction of, the work of the members and staff of the Tribunal, including

  * (_a_) the apportionment of work among members and the assignment of members to hear matters brought before the Tribunal and, when the Tribunal sits in panels, the assignment of members to panels and to preside over panels; and

  * (_b_) generally, the conduct of the work of the Tribunal and the management of its internal affairs.

###### Absence of Chairperson

(2) In the event of the absence or incapacity of the Chairperson or if the office of Chairperson is vacant, the Vice-Chairperson shall act as Chairperson during the continuance of that absence or incapacity or until a new Chairperson is designated.

###### Term of office

**6.** (1) A member shall be appointed to hold office during good behaviour for a term not exceeding seven years and may be removed for cause by the Governor in Council.

###### Reappointment

(2) A member is eligible to be reappointed.

###### Disposition after member ceases to hold office

(3) At the request of the Chairperson, a former member, within eight weeks after ceasing to be a member, may make or take part in a determination or decision on a matter that they heard as a member. For that purpose, the former member is deemed to be a member.

###### Remuneration

**7.** (1) Members shall receive the remuneration that is fixed by the Governor in Council.

###### Expenses

(2) Each member is entitled to be paid reasonable travel and living expenses incurred while absent in the course of their duties from, in the case of a full-time member, their ordinary place of work and, in the case of a part-time member, their ordinary place of residence.

###### Status

(3) Members are deemed to be employed in the federal public administration for the purposes of the [Government Employees Compensation Act](/canada/eng/acts/G/G-5.md) and any regulations made under section 9 of the [Aeronautics Act](/canada/eng/acts/A/A-2.md).

  * 2001, c. 29, s. 7;
  * 2003, c. 22, s. 224(E).

Previous Version

###### Inconsistent interests — full-time members

**8.** (1) Full-time members shall not accept or hold any office, membership, employment or interest, or engage in any business activity, that is inconsistent with the proper performance of their duties and functions.

###### Divesting of interests

(2) If an interest that is prohibited under subsection (1) vests, by whatever means, in a full-time member, the member shall disclose the interest to the Chairperson without delay and, within three months after the interest vests, either divest himself or herself of the interest or resign as a member.

###### Duties of full-time members

(3) Full-time members shall devote the whole of their time to the performance of their duties and functions under this Act.

###### Inconsistent interests — part-time members

(4) If a part-time member who is assigned to hear or is hearing any matter before the Tribunal, either alone or as a member of a panel, holds any pecuniary or other interest that could be inconsistent with the proper performance of their duties and functions in relation to the matter, the member shall disclose the interest to the Chairperson without delay and is ineligible to hear, or to continue to hear, the matter.

###### Principal office

**9.** The principal office of the Tribunal shall be in the National Capital Region described in the schedule to the [National Capital Act](/canada/eng/acts/N/N-4.md).

###### Employees

**10.** (1) The employees that are necessary for the proper conduct of the work of the Tribunal shall be appointed in accordance with the [Public Service Employment Act](/canada/eng/acts/P/P-33.01.md).

###### Status

(2) Employees appointed under subsection (1) are deemed to be employed in the public service for the purposes of the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/canada/eng/acts/P/P-36.md).

###### Experts

(3) The Tribunal may engage experts or persons having technical or specialized knowledge to assist the Tribunal in any matter in an advisory capacity and may, subject to the approval of the Treasury Board, fix their remuneration.

  * 2001, c. 29, s. 10;
  * 2003, c. 22, s. 225(E).

Previous Version

###### Sittings

**11.** The Tribunal shall sit at those times and places in Canada that the Chairperson considers necessary for the proper performance of its functions.

###### Hearings on review

**12.** A review shall be heard by a member, sitting alone, who has expertise in the transportation sector to which the review relates. However, a review that concerns a matter of a medical nature shall be heard by a member with medical expertise, whether or not that member has expertise in the transportation sector to which the review relates.

###### Hearings on appeal

**13.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), an appeal to the Tribunal shall be heard by an appeal panel consisting of three members.

###### Size of panel

(2) The Chairperson may, if he or she considers it appropriate, direct that an appeal be heard by an appeal panel consisting of more than three members or, with the consent of the parties to the appeal, of one member.

###### Composition of panel

(3) A member who conducts a review may not sit on an appeal panel that is established to hear an appeal from his or her determination.

###### Qualifications of members

(4) With the exception of the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson, who may sit on any appeal panel, an appeal shall be heard by an appeal panel consisting of members who have expertise in the transportation sector to which the appeal relates.

###### Medical matters

(5) Despite subsection (4), in an appeal that concerns a matter of a medical nature, at least one member of the appeal panel shall have medical expertise, whether or not that member has expertise in the transportation sector to which the appeal relates.

###### Decision of panel

(6) A decision of a majority of the members of an appeal panel is a decision of the panel.

###### Nature of appeal

**14.** An appeal shall be on the merits based on the record of the proceedings before the member from whose determination the appeal is taken, but the appeal panel shall allow oral argument and, if it considers it necessary for the purposes of the appeal, shall hear evidence not previously available.

###### Nature of hearings

**15.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), the Tribunal is not bound by any legal or technical rules of evidence in conducting any matter that comes before it, and all such matters shall be dealt with by it as informally and expeditiously as the circumstances and considerations of fairness and natural justice permit.

###### Restriction

(2) The Tribunal shall not receive or accept as evidence anything that would be inadmissible in a court by reason of any privilege under the law of evidence.

###### Appearance

(3) A party to a proceeding before the Tribunal may appear in person or be represented by another person, including legal counsel.

###### Private hearings

(4) Hearings shall be held in public. However, the Tribunal may hold all or any part of a hearing in private if it is of the opinion that

  * (_a_) a public hearing would not be in the public interest;

  * (_b_) medical information about a person may be disclosed and the desirability of ensuring that, in the interests of that person, the information is not publicly disclosed outweighs the desirability of adhering to the principle that hearings be open to the public; or

  * (_c_) confidential business information may be disclosed and the desirability of ensuring that the information is not publicly disclosed outweighs the desirability of adhering to the principle that hearings be open to the public.

###### Standard of proof

(5) In any proceeding before the Tribunal, a party that has the burden of proof discharges it by proof on the balance of probabilities.

###### Powers of Tribunal

**16.** The Tribunal, and each of its members, has all the powers of a commissioner under Part I of the [Inquiries Act](/canada/eng/acts/I/I-11.md).

###### Reasons

**17.** A member who conducts a review shall provide a determination, and an appeal panel shall provide a decision, with reasons, in writing to all parties to a proceeding.

###### Rules of Tribunal

**18.** The Tribunal may, with the approval of the Governor in Council, make rules that are not inconsistent with this Act or any Act referred to in section 2 to govern the management of its affairs and the practice and procedure in connection with matters brought before it.

###### Costs

**19.** (1) The Tribunal may award any costs, and may require the reimbursement of any expenses incurred in connection with a hearing, that it considers reasonable if

  * (_a_) it is seized of the matter for reasons that are frivolous or vexatious;

  * (_b_) a party that files a request for a review or an appeal and does not appear at the hearing does not establish that there was sufficient reason to justify their absence; or

  * (_c_) a party that is granted an adjournment of the hearing requested the adjournment without adequate notice to the Tribunal.

###### Recovery

(2) Costs awarded to the Minister of Transport, and expenses of that Minister or the Tribunal that are subject to reimbursement, under subsection (1) are a debt due to Her Majesty in right of Canada.

###### Certificate

(3) Costs or expenses under subsection (1) that have not been paid may be certified by the Tribunal.

###### Registration of certificate

(4) On production to the Federal Court, a certificate shall be registered. When it is registered, a certificate has the same force and effect as if it were a judgment obtained in the Federal Court for a debt of the amount specified in it and all reasonable costs and charges attendant on its registration, recoverable in that Court or in any other court of competent jurisdiction.

###### Proceedings to be recorded

**20.** Proceedings before the Tribunal shall be recorded, and the record shall show all evidence taken and all determinations, decisions and findings made in respect of the proceedings.

###### Decision on appeal final

**21.** A decision of an appeal panel of the Tribunal is final and binding on the parties to the appeal.

###### Annual report

**22.** The Tribunal shall, not later than June 30 in each fiscal year, submit to Parliament, through the member of the Queen’s Privy Council for Canada who is designated by the Governor in Council as the Minister for the purposes of this section, a report of its activities during the preceding fiscal year, and that Minister shall cause the report to be laid before each House of Parliament on any of the first 15 days on which that House is sitting after the Minister receives it.

## TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

###### Definitions

**(*)23.** The definitions in this section apply in sections 24 to 32.

**“former Tribunal”** - _« ancien Tribunal »_

    

“former Tribunal” means the Civil Aviation Tribunal established by subsection 29(1) of the [Aeronautics Act](/canada/eng/acts/A/A-2.md) as that Act read immediately before the coming into force of section 44.

**“new Tribunal”** - _« nouveau Tribunal »_

    

“new Tribunal” means the Transportation Appeal Tribunal of Canada established by subsection 2(1).

  * (*)[Note: Section 44 in force June 30, 2003, _see _ SI/2003-128.]

###### Powers, duties and functions

**24.** Wherever, in any Act of Parliament, in any instrument made under an Act of Parliament or in any contract, lease, licence or other document, a power, duty or function is vested in or is exercisable by the former Tribunal, the power, duty or function is vested in or is exercisable by the new Tribunal.

###### Appropriations

**(*)25.** Any amount that is appropriated, for the fiscal year in which this section comes into force, by an appropriation Act based on the Estimates for that year for defraying the charges and expenses of the former Tribunal and that, on the day on which section 44 comes into force, is unexpended is deemed, on that day, to be an amount appropriated for defraying the charges and expenses of the new Tribunal.

  * (*)[Note: Sections 25 and 44 in force June 30, 2003, _see _ SI/2003-128.]

###### Members of Tribunal

**(*)26.** The Chairman, Vice-Chairman and other members of the former Tribunal immediately before the coming into force of section 44 shall, on the coming into force of that section, occupy the positions of Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and members, respectively, with the new Tribunal until the expiry of the period of their appointment to the former Tribunal.

  * (*)[Note: Section 44 in force June 30, 2003, _see _ SI/2003-128.]

###### Employment continued

**(*)27.** (1) Nothing in this Act shall be construed as affecting the status of an employee who, immediately before the coming into force of section 44, occupied a position with the former Tribunal, except that each of those persons shall, on the coming into force of that section, occupy their position with the new Tribunal.

  * (*)[Note: Section 44 in force June 30, 2003, _see _ SI/2003-128.]

###### Definition of “employee”

(2) For the purposes of this section, “employee” has the same meaning as in subsection 2(1) of the [Public Service Employment Act](/canada/eng/acts/P/P-33.01.md).

###### References

**28.** Every reference to the former Tribunal in any deed, contract, agreement or other document executed by the former Tribunal in its own name shall, unless the context otherwise requires, be read as a reference to the new Tribunal.

###### Rights and obligations

**29.** All rights and property of the former Tribunal and of Her Majesty in right of Canada that are under the administration and control of the former Tribunal and all obligations of the former Tribunal are transferred to the new Tribunal.

###### Commencement of legal proceedings

**30.** Any action, suit or other legal proceeding in respect of an obligation or liability incurred by the former Tribunal may be brought against the new Tribunal in any court that would have had jurisdiction if the action, suit or other legal proceeding had been brought against the former Tribunal.

###### Continuation of legal proceedings

**(*)31.** Any action, suit or other legal proceeding to which the former Tribunal is a party that is pending in any court immediately before the day on which section 44 comes into force may be continued by or against the new Tribunal in the same manner and to the same extent as it could have been continued by or against the former Tribunal.

  * (*)[Note: Section 44 in force June 30, 2003, _see _ SI/2003-128.]

###### Continuation of proceedings

**(*)32.** (1) Proceedings relating to any matter before the former Tribunal on the coming into force of section 44, including any matter that is in the course of being heard by the former Tribunal, shall be continued by the new Tribunal.

  * (*)[Note: Section 44 in force June 30, 2003, _see _ SI/2003-128.] 

###### Application of provisions

(*)(2) Unless the Governor in Council, by order, directs that proceedings continued under this section are to be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of this Act, the proceedings shall be dealt with and determined in accordance with the provisions of the [Aeronautics Act](/canada/eng/acts/A/A-2.md) as that Act read immediately before the coming into force of section 44.

  * (*)[Note: Section 44 in force June 30, 2003, _see _ SI/2003-128.] 

###### Directions re proceedings

(*)(3) The Governor in Council may, by order, direct that proceedings in respect of any class of matter referred to in subsection (1) in respect of which no decision or order is made on the coming into force of section 44 shall be discontinued or continued by the new Tribunal, as the case may be, on the terms and conditions specified in the order for the protection and preservation of the rights and interests of the parties.

  * (*)[Note: Section 44 in force June 30, 2003, _see _ SI/2003-128.] 

## CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS

**33\. to 70.** [Amendments]

## COORDINATING AMENDMENTS

**71\. and 72.** [Amendments]

## COMING INTO FORCE

###### Coming into force

**(*)73.** The provisions of this Act, other than sections 71 and 72, come into force on a day or days to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

  * (*)[Note: Sections 71 and 72 in force on assent December 18, 2001; sections 1 to 45, 52 to 54 and 60 to 70 in force June 30, 2003, _see_ SI/2003-128; sections 55 to 59 in force June 30, 2005, _see_ SI/2005-61; sections 46 to 51 repealed before coming into force, _see_ 2008, c. 20, s. 3.]
  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada
