# An Act to implement certain provisions of the budget tabled in Parliament on March 23, 2004

S.C. 2004, c. 22

Assented to 2004-05-14

An Act to implement certain provisions of the budget tabled in Parliament on March 23, 2004

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

## SHORT TITLE

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Budget Implementation Act, 2004](/canada/eng/acts/B/B-9.852.md).

## PART 1 - AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL-PROVINCIAL FISCAL ARRANGEMENTS ACT

## Fiscal Equalization Payments

**2.** [Amendment]

**3.** [Amendment]

**4.** [Amendment]

## Canada Social Transfer

**5.** [Amendment]

## PART 2 - AMENDMENT TO THE CANADA-NEWFOUNDLAND ATLANTIC ACCORD IMPLEMENTATION ACT

**6.** [Amendment]

## PART 3 - GENERAL — PAYMENTS TO CERTAIN ENTITIES

## Payments to a Trust

###### Payments to trust — immunization and public health

  * **7.** (1) The Minister of Finance may make direct payments, in an aggregate amount of not more than four hundred million dollars, to a trust established to provide the provinces with funding for the purposes of supporting a national immunization strategy and assisting in the enhancement of their public health capacities.

  * ###### Provincial share

(2) The amount that may be provided to a province under this section is to be determined in accordance with the terms of the trust indenture establishing the trust referred to in subsection (1).

  * ###### Payments out of C.R.F.

(3) Any amount payable under this section may be paid by the Minister of Finance out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund at the times and in the manner that the Minister of Finance considers appropriate.

## Payments to Nova Scotia

###### Payment for 2004–2005

  * **8.** (1) For the fiscal year beginning on April 1, 2004, the Minister of Finance may make a cash payment to the Province of Nova Scotia in an amount equal to the aggregate of twenty-one million dollars and an amount equal to 20 per cent of the Province's offshore minerals revenue for that fiscal year included in the description set out in paragraph (_z.5_) of the definition “revenue source” in subsection 4(2) of the [Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements Act](/canada/eng/acts/F/F-8.md).

  * ###### Payment for 2005–2006

(2) For the fiscal year beginning on April 1, 2005, the Minister of Finance may make a cash payment to the Province of Nova Scotia in an amount equal to 10 per cent of the Province's offshore minerals revenue for that fiscal year included in the description set out in paragraph (_z.5_) of the definition “revenue source” in subsection 4(2) of the [Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements Act](/canada/eng/acts/F/F-8.md).

  * ###### Determination of offshore minerals revenue

(3) The offshore minerals revenue of the Province of Nova Scotia for each of the fiscal years referred to in subsections (1) and (2) shall be determined by the Minister of Finance after the end of that fiscal year at the time of the final computation of the amount, if any, of the fiscal equalization payment that is payable to the Province for that fiscal year under Part I of the [Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements Act](/canada/eng/acts/F/F-8.md).

  * ###### Payment out of C.R.F.

(4) Any amount payable under subsection (1) or (2) may be paid by the Minister of Finance out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund at the time and in the manner that the Minister of Finance considers appropriate.

## Payment to Saskatchewan

###### Payment of $120,000,000

  * **9.** (1) The Minister of Finance may make a cash payment of one hundred and twenty million dollars to the Province of Saskatchewan.

  * ###### Payment out of C.R.F.

(2) Any amount payable under subsection (1) may be paid by the Minister of Finance out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund at the time and in the manner that the Minister of Finance considers appropriate.

## Appropriations for Grants

### Canada Foundation for Sustainable Development Technology

###### $200,000,000 granted

**10.** From and out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund there may, on the requisition of the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Natural Resources, be paid and applied a sum not exceeding two hundred million dollars for payment to the Canada Foundation for Sustainable Development Technology for its use.

### Canada Health Infoway Inc.

###### $100,000,000 granted

**11.** From and out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund there may, on the requisition of the Minister of Health, be paid and applied a sum not exceeding one hundred million dollars for payment to the Canada Health Infoway Inc. for its use.

### Amendments to the Canada Foundation for Sustainable Development Technology Act

**12.** [Amendment]

**13.** [Amendment]

**14.** [Amendment]

## PART 4 - AMENDMENTS TO THE CANADA PENSION PLAN

## Canada Pension Plan

The following provision is not in force.

**15.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**16.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**17.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**18.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**19.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**20.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**21.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**22.** [Amendment]

## Transitional

The following provision is not in force.

**23.** [Transitional provision]

## Coming into Force

The following provision is not in force.

###### Subsection 114(2) of the [Canada Pension Plan](/canada/eng/acts/C/C-8.md) does not apply

**24.** (1) Subsection 114(2) of the [Canada Pension Plan](/canada/eng/acts/C/C-8.md) does not apply in respect of the amendments to that Act contained in this Part.

###### Order

(*)(2)  This Part comes into force, in accordance with subsection 114(4) of the [Canada Pension Plan](/canada/eng/acts/C/C-8.md), on a day to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

  * (*)[Note: Part 4 not in force.]

## PART 5 - AMENDMENTS TO THE EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT

**25.** [Amendment]

**26.** [Amendment]

**27.** [Amendment]

## PART 6 - AMENDMENT TO THE FARM CREDIT CANADA ACT

**28.** [Amendment]

## PART 7 - GOODS AND SERVICES TAX AND HARMONIZED SALES TAX REBATE FOR MUNICIPALITIES

## Excise Tax Act

**29.** [Amendment]

**30.** [Amendment]

**31.** [Amendment]

**32.** [Amendment]

**33.** [Amendment]

**34.** [Amendment]

**35.** [Amendment]

**36.** [Amendment]

**37.** [Amendment]

**38.** [Amendment]

**39.** [Amendment]

**40.** [Amendment]

**41.** [Amendment]

**42.** [Amendment]

**43.** [Amendment]

**44.** [Amendment]

## PART 8 - LIMITATION PERIODS FOR COLLECTION OF CHARGE DEBTS AND TAX DEBTS

## Air Travellers Security Charge Act

**45.** [Amendment]

## Excise Act

**46.** [Amendment]

## Excise Act, 2001

**47.** [Amendment]

## Excise Tax Act

**48.** [Amendment]

**49.** [Amendment]

## Income Tax Act

**50.** [Amendment]
  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada
