# Budget Implementation Act, 2000

S.C. 2000, c. 14

Assented to 2000-06-29

An Act to implement certain provisions of the budget tabled in Parliament on February 28, 2000

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

## SHORT TITLE

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Budget Implementation Act, 2000](/canada/eng/acts/B/B-9.84.md).

## PART 1 - EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE

## Employment Insurance Act

### General Amendments

**2\. to 6.** [Amendments]

### Interim Provisions

**7\. to 9.** [Interim provisions]

### Conditional Amendment

**10.** [Amendment]

### Coming into Force

###### December 31, 2000

**11.** Sections 2 to 6 come into force on December 31, 2000.

## PART 2 - CANADA HEALTH AND SOCIAL TRANSFER

## Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements Act

**12\. to 15.** [Amendments]

###### Coming into force

**16.** Sections 12 to 15 are deemed to have come into force on April 1, 2000.

## PART 3 - FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO STUDENTS

## Canada Student Financial Assistance Act

**17\. to 21.** [Amendments]

###### Coming into force

**(*)22.** The provisions of this Part, except this section, come into force on a day or days to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

  * (*)[Note: Sections 17 to 21 in force July 17, 2000, _see_ SI/2000-62.]

## PART 4 - FIRST NATIONS’ SALES TAX

## General Provisions

###### Definitions

**23.** (1) The definitions in this subsection apply in this Part.

**“alcohol”** - _« alcool »_

    

“alcohol” means ethyl alcohol. 

**“alcoholic beverage”** - _« boisson alcoolisée »_

    

“alcoholic beverage” means 

  * (_a_) beer, within the meaning assigned by section B.02.130 of the [Food and Drug Regulations](/canada/eng/regulations/C.R.C.,_c._870/C.R.C.,_c._870.md), that contains more than 0.5% alcohol by volume;

  * (_b_) ale, stout, porter or malt liquor, within the meaning assigned by section B.02.131 of the [Food and Drug Regulations](/canada/eng/regulations/C.R.C.,_c._870/C.R.C.,_c._870.md), that contains more than 0.5% alcohol by volume;

  * (_c_) wine, within the meaning assigned by section 2 of the [Excise Act, 2001](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-14.1.md);

  * (_d_) any beverage that contains more than 0.5% alcohol by volume, that is obtained from the distillation of grains, fruits or other agricultural products or from the distillation of beer or wine; and

  * (_e_) any other beverage that contains a combination of any beverage referred to in paragraphs (_a_) to (_d_) that is suitable for human consumption and that contains more than 0.5% alcohol by volume.

**“council of a band”** - _« conseil »_

    

“council of a band” has the same meaning as the expression “council of the band” in subsection 2(1) of the [Indian Act](/canada/eng/acts/I/I-5.md). 

**“direct”** - _« directe »_

    

“direct” has the same meaning, for the purpose of distinguishing between a direct and an indirect tax, as in class 2 of section 92 of the [Constitution Act, 1867](/canada/eng/Const//.md). 

**“fuel”** - _« carburant »_

    

“fuel” means

  * (_a_) diesel fuel, including any fuel oil that is suitable for use in internal combustion engines of the compression-ignition type, other than fuel oil that is intended for use and is actually used as heating oil;

  * (_b_) gasoline type fuels for use in internal combustion engines; and

  * (_c_) propane gas.

**“Minister”** - _« ministre »_

    

“Minister” means the Minister of Finance.

**“tobacco product”** - _« produit du tabac »_

    

“tobacco product” has the meaning assigned by section 2 of the [Excise Act, 2001](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-14.1.md). 

###### Expressions defined in other Acts

(2) In this Part,

  * (_a_) the expressions “band” and “reserve” have the meanings assigned by subsection 2(1) of the [Indian Act](/canada/eng/acts/I/I-5.md); and

  * (_b_) the expressions “supply” and “taxable supply” have the meanings assigned by subsection 123(1) of the [Excise Tax Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.md).

  * 2000, c. 14, s. 23;
  * 2002, c. 22, s. 321.

###### Tax on specific supplies

**24.** (1) Despite section 87 of the [Indian Act](/canada/eng/acts/I/I-5.md), the council of a band listed in the schedule may make a by-law imposing a direct tax in respect of taxable supplies of alcoholic beverages, fuel or tobacco products made on the reserves of the band at the rates at which tax is imposed under subsections 165(1) and (3) of the [Excise Tax Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.md) in respect of those supplies.

###### Collection of tax

(2) A direct tax imposed under a by-law made under subsection (1) shall be collected pursuant to an administration agreement entered into under subsection 26(1).

###### Supply on a reserve

(3) For the purposes of subsection (1), a supply is made on a reserve only if

  * (_a_) tax under section 165 of the [Excise Tax Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.md) is not payable in respect of the supply because of the connection of the supply with the reserve and the application of section 87 of the [Indian Act](/canada/eng/acts/I/I-5.md); or

  * (_b_) tax under section 165 of the [Excise Tax Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.md) would not be payable in respect of the supply for the reasons set out in paragraph (_a_) if the recipient of the supply were eligible for exemption from taxation under section 87 of the [Indian Act](/canada/eng/acts/I/I-5.md).

###### Application of section 87 of the [Indian Act](/canada/eng/acts/I/I-5.md)

**25.** (1) For greater certainty, except in respect of a tax imposed by a by-law made under subsection 24(1), nothing in that subsection affects the application of section 87 of the [Indian Act](/canada/eng/acts/I/I-5.md).

###### Indian moneys

(2) Moneys raised pursuant to a direct tax imposed under subsection 24(1) are not Indian moneys within the meaning of subsection 2(1) of the [Indian Act](/canada/eng/acts/I/I-5.md).

###### Expenditures

(3) Expenditures made out of moneys raised pursuant to a tax imposed under a by-law made under subsection 24(1) must be made under the authority of a resolution approved by a majority of councillors present at a meeting of the council of a band that is duly convened.

###### By-law

(4) A by-law made under subsection 24(1)

  * (_a_) is valid only if approved by a majority of councillors present at a meeting of the council of a band that is duly convened;

  * (_b_) does not come into force before it has been received by the Minister and an administration agreement has been entered into under subsection 26(1);

  * (_c_) shall provide that the rates of tax under the by-law are those at which tax is imposed under subsections 165(1) and (3) of the [Excise Tax Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.md);

  * (_d_) may be made in respect of any matter arising out of or ancillary to the exercise of powers under this subsection; and

  * (_e_) is not subject to the [Statutory Instruments Act](/canada/eng/acts/S/S-22.md).

###### Proof of by-law

(5) A copy of a by-law made under this Part, if it is certified to be a true copy by the Minister or a person authorized by the Minister, is evidence that the by-law was duly made by the council of a band and received by the Minister, without proof of the signature or the authorization of the person, and no such by-law is invalid by reason of any defect in form.

###### Publication

(6) The council of a band shall, on demand, provide a copy of any by-law made by the council under this Part and shall publish a copy of every such by-law in a newspaper that has general circulation in the place where the tax applies and in the First Nations Gazette, but no by-law shall be invalid by reason of a failure to publish it.

###### Agreement with Government of Canada

**26.** (1) If the council of a band has made a by-law imposing a tax under this Part, the council may enter into an administration agreement within the meaning of subsection 2(1) of the [Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements Act](/canada/eng/acts/F/F-8.md) in respect of the by-law.

###### Rules where agreement

(2) If the council of a band has entered into an administration agreement under subsection (1) in respect of a by-law,

  * (_a_) Part IX of, and Schedules V, VI and VII to, the [Excise Tax Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.md) apply for the purposes of the by-law as if the tax imposed under the by-law were imposed under section 165 of that Act;

  * (_b_) Part IX of the [Excise Tax Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.md) applies for all other purposes as if the by-law were part of that Part and the tax imposed under the by-law were imposed under that Part;

  * (_c_) the by-law applies as if Part IX of the [Excise Tax Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.md) were part of the by-law and tax imposed under that Part were imposed under the by-law;

  * (_d_) for greater certainty,

    * (i) where a person does anything to satisfy a requirement of the by-law that would satisfy a corresponding requirement of Part IX of the [Excise Tax Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.md) if the tax imposed under the by-law were imposed under section 165 of that Act, the requirement of the by-law is deemed to have been satisfied,

    * (ii) where a person does anything to exercise an authority under the by-law that would be a valid exercise of a corresponding authority under Part IX of the [Excise Tax Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.md) if the tax imposed under the by-law were imposed under section 165 of that Act, the authority under the by-law is deemed to have been validly exercised, and

    * (iii) every person who is a registrant for the purposes of Part IX of the [Excise Tax Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.md) is a registrant for the purposes of the by-law; and

  * (_e_) any proceeding that could be taken under any other Act of Parliament in respect of the tax imposed under section 165 of the [Excise Tax Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.md) may be taken in respect of the tax imposed under the by-law.

###### Tax under subsection 165(1) of the [Excise Tax Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.md) not payable

**27.** No tax is payable under subsection 165(1) of the [Excise Tax Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.md) in respect of a supply if tax is payable in respect of the supply under a by-law made under subsection 24(1).

###### Offence

**28.** Where a person commits an act or omission in respect of a by-law made under subsection 24(1) that would be an offence under a provision of Part IX of the [Excise Tax Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.md) if the act or omission were committed in relation to that Part,

  * (_a_) subject to paragraph (_b_), the person is guilty of an offence punishable on summary conviction;

  * (_b_) the Attorney General of Canada may elect to prosecute the person by indictment where an offence under that provision of that Part may be prosecuted by indictment; and

  * (_c_) the person is liable on conviction to the punishment provided for in that provision of that Part.

###### Amendment of schedule

**29.** The Governor in Council may, by order, amend the schedule by adding to it or deleting from it the name of any band.

## Consequential Amendments

**30\. to 33.** [Amendments]

## Conditional Amendment

**34.** [Amendment]

## PART 5 - EXCISE TAX ACT

**35\. and 36.** [Amendments]

## PART 6 - INCOME TAX ACT

**37\. to 41.** [Amendments]

## PART 7 - AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS

## Canada Labour Code

**42\. and 43.** [Amendments]

###### Coming into force

**44.** Section 42 comes into force on December 31, 2000.

## Canada Pension Plan

**45.** [Amendment]

###### Subsection 114(2) does not apply

**46.** (1) Subsection 114(2) of the [Canada Pension Plan](/canada/eng/acts/C/C-8.md) does not apply in respect of the amendments to that Act contained in this Act.

###### Coming into force

(*)(2) Section 45 comes into force, in accordance with subsection 114(4) of the [Canada Pension Plan](/canada/eng/acts/C/C-8.md), on a day to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

  * (*)[Note: Section 45 in force January 31, 2001, _see_ SI/2001-19.]

## Special Import Measures Act

**47.** [Amendment]

## SCHEDULE - (Subsection 24(1) and section 29) - TAX ON SPECIFIC SUPPLIES

  * 1. The Cowichan Band, also known as the Cowichan Tribes

  * 2. The Westbank First Nation

  * 3. The Kamloops Band

  * 4. The Sliammon Band

  * 5. The Osoyoos Band

  * 6. The Adams Lake Band

  * 7. The Tsawout First Nation

  * 8. The Chemainus First Nation

  * 9. The Dakota Tipi Band, also known as Dakota Tipi First Nation

  * 10. The Waywayseecappo First Nation Treaty Four — 1874

  * 11. The Opaskwayak Cree Nation

  * 12. The Buffalo Point First Nation

  * 13. The Tobique Band, also known as the Maliseet Nation at Tobique

  * 14. The Tzeachten First Nation

  * 15. The Nisichawayasihk Cree Nation

  * 16. The Shuswap

  * 17. Skidegate

  * 18. Spallumcheen

  * 19. Whitecap Dakota First Nation

  * 20. Bonaparte

  * 21. Little Shuswap Lake

  * 2000, c. 14, Sch.;
  * SOR/2001-114, 523;
  * SOR/2002-376;
  * SOR/2003-356;
  * SOR/2005-362.
  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada
