# Budget Implementation Act, 2003

S.C. 2003, c. 15

Assented to 2003-06-19

An Act to implement certain provisions of the budget tabled in Parliament on February 18, 2003

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

## SHORT TITLE

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Budget Implementation Act, 2003](/canada/eng/acts/B/B-9.851.md).

## PART 1 - DIAGNOSTIC AND MEDICAL EQUIPMENT

###### Payments to trust — equipment and training

**2.** (1) The Minister of Finance may make direct payments, in an aggregate amount of not more than $1.5 billion, to a trust established to provide the provinces with funding for the purposes of acquiring diagnostic and medical equipment and related specialized staff training in order to improve access to publicly funded diagnostic and treatment services.

###### Provincial share

(2) The amount that may be provided to a province under this section is to be determined in accordance with the terms of the trust indenture establishing the trust referred to in subsection (1).

###### Payments out of C.R.F.

(3) Any amount payable under this section may be paid by the Minister out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund at the times and in the manner that the Minister considers appropriate.

## PART 2 - AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL-PROVINCIAL FISCAL ARRANGEMENTS ACT

**3.** [Amendment]

**3.1** [Amendment]

**4.** [Amendment]

**5.** [Amendment]

**6.** [Amendment]

**7.** [Amendment]

**8.** [Amendment]

## PART 3 - STUDENT LOANS

## Canada Student Financial Assistance Act

**9.** [Amendment]

**10.** [Amendment]

**11.** [Amendment]

**12.** [Amendment]

## Canada Student Loans Act

**13.** [Amendment]

## Coming into Force

###### Coming into force

  * **14.** (1) Sections 9, 11 and 13 come into force or are deemed to have come into force on August 1, 2003.

  * ###### Coming into force

(2) Sections 10 and 12 are deemed to have come into force on August 1, 2002.

## PART 4 - EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE

##  \- Employment Insurance Act

The following provision is not in force.

**15.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**16.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**17.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**18.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**19.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**20.** [Amendment]

**21.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**22.** [Amendment]

##  \- Employment Insurance (Fishing) Regulations

The following provision is not in force.

**23.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**24.** [Amendment]

## Transitional Provisions

The following provision is not in force.

**25.** [Transitional provisions]

## Related Amendments

###  \- Canada Labour Code

The following provision is not in force.

**26.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**27.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**28.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**29.** [Amendment]

## Coming into Force

###### Coming into force

  * **(*)30.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), the provisions of this Part, other than sections 21, 23 and 24, come into force on a day to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

  * ###### Coming into force

(2) Despite section 153 of the [Employment Insurance Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-5.6.md), sections 23 and 24 come into force on a day to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

    * (*)[Note: Section 21 in force on assent June 19, 2003.]

## PART 5 - GENERAL — NON-TAX MEASURES

## Foundations

###  \- Budget Implementation Act, 1997

**31.** [Amendment]

###  \- Budget Implementation Act, 1998

**32.** [Amendment]

###  \- Canada Foundation for Sustainable Development Technology Act

**33.** [Amendment]

## Appropriations for Grants

### Canada Foundation for Sustainable Development Technology

###### $250,000,000 granted

**34.** From and out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund there may, on the requisition of the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Natural Resources, be paid and applied a sum not exceeding two hundred and fifty million dollars for payment to the Canada Foundation for Sustainable Development Technology for its use.

### Canadian Foundation for Climate and Atmospheric Sciences

###### $50,000,000 granted

**35.** From and out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund there may, on the requisition of the Minister of the Environment, be paid and applied a sum not exceeding fifty million dollars for payment to the Canadian Foundation for Climate and Atmospheric Sciences for its use.

### Canada Health Infoway Inc.

###### $600,000,000 granted

**36.** From and out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund there may, on the requisition of the Minister of Health, be paid and applied a sum not exceeding six hundred million dollars for payment to the Canada Health Infoway Inc. for its use.

### Canadian Health Services Research Foundation

###### $25,000,000 granted

**37.** From and out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund there may, on the requisition of the Minister of Health, be paid and applied a sum not exceeding twenty-five million dollars for payment to the Canadian Health Services Research Foundation for its use.

### Canadian Institute for Health Information

###### $70,000,000 granted

**38.** From and out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund there may, on the requisition of the Minister of Health, be paid and applied a sum not exceeding seventy million dollars for payment to the Canadian Institute for Health Information for its use.

### Canada Foundation for Innovation

###### $500,000,000 granted

**39.** From and out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund there may, on the requisition of the Minister of Industry, be paid and applied a sum not exceeding five hundred million dollars for payment to the Canada Foundation for Innovation for its use.

### Genome Canada

###### $75,000,000 granted

**40.** From and out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund there may, on the requisition of the Minister of Industry, be paid and applied a sum not exceeding seventy-five million dollars for payment to Genome Canada for its use.

##  \- Amendments to the Farm Credit Canada Act

**41.** [Amendment]

**42.** [Amendment]

##  \- Repeal of Debt Servicing and Reduction Account Act

  * **43.** (1) The [Debt Servicing and Reduction Account Act](/canada/eng/acts/D/D-0.5.md) does not apply to the fiscal year ending on March 31, 2003 or to any subsequent fiscal year.

  * (2) [Repeal]

## PART 6 - - AMENDMENTS TO THE AIR TRAVELLERS SECURITY CHARGE ACT

**44.** [Amendment]

## PART 7 - AMENDMENTS RELATED TO THE TAXATION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS

##  \- Customs Tariff

**45.** [Amendment]

##  \- Excise Act, 2001

**46.** [Amendment]

**47.** [Amendment]

**48.** [Amendment]

**49.** [Amendment]

**50.** [Amendment]

**51.** [Amendment]

**52.** [Amendment]

**53.** [Amendment]

**54.** [Amendment]

##  \- Excise Tax Act

**55.** [Amendment]

**56.** [Amendment]

**57.** [Amendment]

**58.** [Amendment]

## Coming into Force and Application

**59.** [Transitional provision]

  * **60.** (1) Section 45 is deemed to have come into force on June 18, 2002. For greater certainty, the [Customs Tariff](/canada/eng/acts/C/C-54.011.md), as amended by section 45, is further amended by section 346 of the [Excise Act, 2001](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-14.1.md) on the coming into force of that section 346, regardless of whether that coming into force occurs before or after this Act is assented to.

  * (*)(2) Sections 46 to 54 come into force or are deemed to have come into force on the day that is the earlier of the day on which this Act is assented to and the day on which Part 3 of the [Excise Act, 2001](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-14.1.md) comes into force.

    * (*)[Note: Sections 46 to 54 in force on assent June 19, 2003.]

  * (3) Sections 55 to 58 are deemed to have come into force on June 18, 2002. For greater certainty, the [Excise Tax Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.md), as amended by those sections, is further amended by sections 368 and 390 of the [Excise Act, 2001](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-14.1.md) on the coming into force of those sections 368 and 390, regardless of whether that coming into force occurs before or after this Act is assented to.

## PART 8 - AMENDMENTS RELATED TO EXCISE TAX ON FUEL AND TO THE GOODS AND SERVICES TAX/HARMONIZED SALES TAX

##  \- Excise Tax Act

**61.** [Amendment]

**62.** [Amendment]

**63.** [Amendment]

**64.** [Amendment]

**65.** [Amendment]

##  \- Consequential Amendment to Excise Act, 2001

**66.** [Amendment]

## PART 9 - FIRST NATIONS GOODS AND SERVICES TAXES

## First Nations Goods and Services Tax Act

**67.** The [First Nations Goods and Services Tax Act](/canada/eng/acts/F/F-11.7.md) is enacted as follows:

[See [First Nations Goods and Services Tax Act](/canada/eng/acts/F/F-11.7.md)]

## Consequential Amendments

###  \- Excise Tax Act

**68.** [Amendment]

## PART 10 - AMENDMENTS TO THE INCOME TAX ACT AND ANOTHER ACT AS A CONSEQUENCE

##  \- Income Tax Act

**69.** [Amendment]

**70.** [Amendment]

**71.** [Amendment]

**72.** [Amendment]

**73.** [Amendment]

**74.** [Amendment]

**75.** [Amendment]

**76.** [Amendment]

**77.** [Amendment]

**78.** [Amendment]

**79.** [Amendment]

**80.** [Amendment]

**81.** [Amendment]

**82.** [Amendment]

**83.** [Amendment]

**84.** [Amendment]

**85.** [Amendment]

**86.** [Amendment]

**87.** [Amendment]

**88.** [Amendment]

**89.** [Amendment]

##  \- Children’s Special Allowances Act

**90.** [Amendment]

## PART 11 - AMENDMENTS RELATED TO STANDARDIZED ACCOUNTING

##  \- Excise Act, 2001

**91.** [Amendment]

**92.** [Amendment]

**93.** [Amendment]

##  \- Excise Tax Act

**94.** [Amendment]

**95.** [Amendment]

**96.** [Amendment]

**97.** [Amendment]

**98.** [Amendment]

**99.** [Amendment]

**100.** [Amendment]

**101.** [Amendment]

**102.** [Amendment]

**103.** [Amendment]

**104.** [Amendment]

**105.** [Amendment]

**106.** [Amendment]

**107.** [Amendment]

**108.** [Amendment]

**109.** [Amendment]

**110.** [Amendment]

##  \- Income Tax Act

**111.** [Amendment]

**112.** [Amendment]

**113.** [Amendment]

**114.** [Amendment]

**115.** [Amendment]

**116.** [Amendment]

**117.** [Amendment]

**118.** [Amendment]

**119.** [Amendment]

**120.** [Amendment]

**121.** [Amendment]

**122.** [Amendment]

**123.** [Amendment]

**124.** [Amendment]

**125.** [Amendment]

**126.** [Amendment]

**127.** [Amendment]

**128.** [Amendment]

**129.** [Amendment]

## Coordinating Amendments

### Excise Act, 2001

**130.** [Amendments]

## SCHEDULE

[Amendment]
  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada
