# Budget Implementation Act, 2009

S.C. 2009, c. 2

Assented to 2009-03-12

An Act to implement certain provisions of the budget tabled in Parliament on January 27, 2009 and related fiscal measures

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

## SHORT TITLE

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Budget Implementation Act, 2009](/canada/eng/acts/B/B-9.858.md).

## PART 1 - AMENDMENTS IN RESPECT OF INCOME TAX

## Income Tax Act

**2.** [Amendment]

**3.** [Amendment]

**4.** [Amendments]

**5.** [Amendment]

**6.** [Amendment]

**7.** [Amendment]

**8.** [Amendment]

**9.** [Amendment]

**10.** [Amendments]

**11.** [Amendments]

**12.** [Amendments]

**13.** [Amendments]

**14.** [Amendment]

**15.** [Amendment]

**16.** [Amendment]

**17.** [Amendment]

**18.** [Amendment]

**19.** [Amendments]

**20.** [Amendment]

**21.** [Amendment]

**22.** [Amendments]

**23.** [Amendment]

**24.** [Amendment]

**25.** [Amendments]

**26.** [Amendments]

**27.** [Amendment]

**28.** [Amendment]

**29.** [Amendments]

**30.** [Amendments]

**31.** [Amendment]

**32.** [Amendment]

**33.** [Amendment]

**34.** [Amendments]

**35.** [Amendment]

**36.** [Amendments]

**37.** [Amendment]

**38.** [Amendment]

**39.** [Amendments]

**40.** [Amendments]

**41.** [Amendments]

**42.** [Amendment]

**43.** [Amendment]

**44.** [Amendment]

**45.** [Amendments]

**46.** [Amendments]

**47.** [Amendment]

**48.** [Amendment]

**49.** [Amendments]

**50.** [Amendment]

**51.** [Amendments]

**52.** [Amendments]

**53.** [Amendments]

**54.** [Amendments]

**55.** [Amendments]

**56.** [Amendments]

**57.** [Amendment]

**58.** [Amendments]

**59.** [Amendment]

**60.** [Amendments]

**61.** [Amendment]

**62.** [Amendments]

**63.** [Amendment]

**64.** [Amendment]

**65.** [Amendment]

**66.** [Amendment]

**67.** [Amendment]

**68.** [Amendments]

**69.** [Amendment]

**70.** [Amendments]

**71.** [Amendment]

**72.** [Amendment]

**73.** [Amendment]

**74.** [Amendment]

**75.** [Amendments]

**76.** [Amendments]

**77.** [Amendment]

**78.** [Amendments]

**79.** [Amendment]

**80.** [Amendment]

**81.** [Transitional Provision]

## Budget Implementation Act, 2008

**82.** [Amendment]

## Income Tax Regulations

**83.** [Amendment]

**84.** [Amendment]

**85.** [Amendment]

**86.** [Amendment]

**87.** [Amendment]

**88.** [Amendment]

**89.** [Amendment]

**90.** [Amendment]

**91.** [Amendments]

**92.** [Amendment]

**93.** [Amendment]

**94.** [Amendment]

**95.** [Amendment]

**96.** [Amendment]

**97.** [Amendment]

**98.** [Amendment]

**99.** [Amendments]

**100.** [Amendment]

**101.** [Amendments]

**102.** [Amendment]

**103.** [Amendment]

**104.** [Amendment]

**105.** [Amendments]

**106.** [Amendments]

**107.** [Amendment]

**108.** [Amendment]

**109.** [Amendment]

**110.** [Amendment]

**111.** [Amendment]

**112.** [Amendments]

**113.** [Amendment]

**114.** [Amendment]

**115.** [Amendment]

**116.** [Amendment]

**117.** [Amendments]

**118.** [Amendments]

## PART 2 - AMENDMENTS IN RESPECT OF SALES AND EXCISE TAXES

## Excise Act, 2001

**119.** [Amendment]

**120.** [Amendments]

## Excise Tax Act

**121.** [Amendments]

## PART 3 - AMENDMENTS TO THE CUSTOMS TARIFF

## Customs Tariff

**122.** [Amendment]

**123.** [Amendment]

**124.** [Amendment]

**125.** [Amendment]

**126.** [Amendment]

**127.** [Amendment]

**128.** [Amendment]

**129.** [Amendment]

**130.** [Amendment]

**131.** [Amendment]

**132.** [Amendment]

**133.** [Amendment]

**134.** [Amendment]

**135.** [Amendment]

**136.** [Amendment]

**137.** [Amendment]

**138.** [Amendment]

**139.** [Amendment]

**140.** [Amendment]

**141.** [Amendment]

**142.** [Amendment]

**143.** [Amendment]

**144.** [Amendment]

**145.** [Amendment]

**146.** [Amendment]

**147.** [Amendment]

**148.** [Amendment]

**149.** [Amendment]

**150.** [Amendment]

**151.** [Amendment]

**152.** [Amendment]

**153.** [Amendment]

**154.** [Amendment]

**155.** [Amendment]

**156.** [Amendment]

**157.** [Amendment]

**158.** [Amendment]

**159.** [Amendment]

**160.** [Amendment]

**161.** [Amendment]

**162.** [Amendment]

**163.** [Amendment]

**164.** [Amendment]

**165.** [Amendment]

**166.** [Amendment]

**167.** [Amendment]

**168.** [Amendment]

**169.** [Amendment]

**170.** [Amendment]

**171.** [Amendment]

**172.** [Amendment]

**173.** [Amendment]

**174.** [Amendment]

**175.** [Amendment]

**176.** [Amendment]

**177.** [Amendment]

**178.** [Amendment]

**179.** [Amendment]

**180.** [Amendment]

**181.** [Amendment]

**182.** [Amendment]

**183.** [Amendment]

**184.** [Amendment]

**185.** [Amendment]

**186.** [Amendment]

**187.** [Amendment]

**188.** [Amendment]

**189.** [Amendment]

**190.** [Amendment]

**191.** [Amendment]

**192.** [Amendment]

**193.** [Amendment]

**194.** [Amendment]

**195.** [Amendment]

**196.** [Amendment]

**197.** [Amendment]

**198.** [Amendment]

**199.** [Amendment]

**200.** [Amendment]

**201.** [Amendment]

**202.** [Amendment]

**203.** [Amendment]

**204.** [Amendment]

**205.** [Amendment]

**206.** [Amendment]

**207.** [Amendment]

**208.** [Amendment]

**209.** [Amendment]

**210.** [Amendment]

**211.** [Amendment]

**212.** [Amendment]

**213.** [Amendment]

**214.** [Amendment]

**215.** [Amendment]

**216.** [Amendment]

**217.** [Amendment]

**218.** [Amendment]

**219.** [Amendment]

**220.** [Amendments]

## Coming into Force

###### September 8, 2008

  * **221.** (1) Sections 123 to 127 and subsection 220(1) are deemed to have come into force on September 8, 2008.

  * ###### January 28, 2009

(2) Sections 122 and 128 to 219 and subsection 220(2) are deemed to have come into force on January 28, 2009.

## PART 4 - EMPLOYMENT INSURANCE

## Employment Insurance Act

**222.** [Amendment]

**223.** [Amendment]

**224.** [Amendments]

## Claimants Not in Canada

###### Subsection 55(7)

**225.** The maximum number of weeks for which benefits may be paid to a claimant referred to in subsection 55(7) of the [Employment Insurance Regulations](/canada/eng/regulations/SOR/SOR-96-332.md) whose benefit period has not ended before the second Sunday before the day on which this Act receives royal assent and does not begin after September 11, 2010 is to be determined in accordance with Schedule 10.

## Pilot Project Relating To Extended Benefits

**226.** [Transitional Provision]

## Premium Rates Provided for Under the Employment Insurance Act

**227.** [Transitional Provision]

**228.** [Transitional Provision]

## Transitional Provision

**229.** [Transitional Provision]

## Coordinating Amendments

**230.** [Amendments]

## Coming into Force

###### Retroactive effect

  * **231.** (1) Subsection 224(1) is deemed to have come into force on the second Sunday before the day on which this Act receives royal assent.

  * ###### September 12, 2010

(2) Subsection 224(2) comes into force on September 12, 2010.

## PART 5 - STABILITY AND EFFICIENCY OF THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM

## Division 1 - Financial Administration Act

**232.** [Amendment]

## Division 2 - Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation Act

### Amendments to the Act

The following provision is not in force.

**233.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**234.** [Amendment]

**235.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**236.** [Amendments]

The following provision is not in force.

**237.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**238.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**239.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**240.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**241.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**242.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**243.** [Amendments]

The following provision is not in force.

**244.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**245.** [Amendments]

The following provision is not in force.

**246.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**247.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**248.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**249.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**250.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**251.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**252.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**253.** [Amendment]

**254.** [Amendment]

### Consequential Amendments

#### Access to Information Act

The following provision is not in force.

**255.** [Amendment]

#### Canadian Payments Act

The following provision is not in force.

**256.** [Amendment]

#### Financial Administration Act

**257.** [Amendments]

#### Winding-up and Restructuring Act

The following provision is not in force.

**258.** [Amendment]

### Coming into Force

###### Order in council

  * **(*)259.** (1) The provisions of this Division, except for sections 235 and 254 and subsection 257(1), come into force on a day or days to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

    * (*)[Note: Section 235 and subsection 257(1) in force on assent March 12, 2009.]

  * ###### Retroactivity

(2) Section 254 is deemed to have come into force on January 27, 2009.

## Division 3 - Export Development Act

**260.** [Amendments]

**261.** [Amendment]

**262.** [Amendments]

**263.** [Amendment]

## Division 4 - Business Development Bank of Canada Act

**264.** [Amendment]

## Division 5 - Canada Small Business Financing Act

### Amendments to the Act

The following provision is not in force.

**265.** [Amendments]

The following provision is not in force.

**266.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**267.** [Amendment]

### Coming into Force

The following provision is not in force.

###### Coming into force

**268.** This Division comes into force on April 1, 2009 or, if it is later, on the day on which this Act receives royal assent.

## Division 6 - Legislation Governing Financial Institutions

### Bank Act

**269.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**270.** [Amendment]

**271.** [Amendment]

**272.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**273.** [Amendment]

**274.** [Amendment]

**275.** [Amendment]

### Cooperative Credit Associations Act

**276.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**277.** [Amendment]

**278.** [Amendment]

**279.** [Amendment]

### Financial Consumer Agency of Canada Act

The following provision is not in force.

**280.** [Amendment]

### Green Shield Canada Act

**281.** [Amendment]

### Insurance Companies Act

**282.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**283.** [Amendment]

**284.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**285.** [Amendment]

**286.** [Amendment]

**287.** [Amendment]

### Trust and Loan Companies Act

**288.** [Amendment]

**289.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**290.** [Amendment]

**291.** [Amendment]

**292.** [Amendment]

### Coordinating Amendment

**293.** [Amendment]

### Coming into Force

###### Order in council

**(*)294.** Sections 270, 273, 277, 280, 283, 285, and 290 come into force on a day or days to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

  * (*)[Note: Sections 270, 273, 277, 280, 283, 285 and 290 not in force.]

## Division 7 - Securities

### Securities Regulation

###### Maximum payment of $150,000,000

  * **295.** (1) The Minister of Finance may make direct payments, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $150,000,000, to provinces and territories for matters relating to the establishment of a Canadian securities regulation regime and a Canadian regulatory authority.

  * ###### Payments out of C.R.F.

(2) Any amount payable under this section may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of Finance, at the times and in the manner, and on any terms and conditions, that the Minister of Finance considers appropriate.

###### Agreements

**296.** The Minister of Finance may enter into any agreement respecting securities regulation with any province or territory.

### Canadian Securities Regulation Regime Transition Office Act

The following provision is not in force.

###### Enactment of Act

**297.** The [Canadian Securities Regulation Regime Transition Office Act](/canada/eng/acts/C/C-23.05.md) is enacted as follows:

[See [Canadian Securities Regulation Regime Transition Office Act](/canada/eng/acts/C/C-23.05.md)]

### Transitional Provision

**298.** [Transitional Provision]

### Coming into Force

###### Order in council

**(*)299.** Section 297 comes into force on a day to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

  * (*)[Note: Section 297 not in force.]

## PART 6 - PAYMENTS

## Infrastructure Stimulus Fund

###### Maximum payment of $2,000,000,000

**300.** There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of Transport, in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the Treasury Board, a sum not exceeding two billion dollars to provide funding for infrastructure projects primarily related to infrastructure rehabilitation.

## Provincial-Territorial Infrastructure Base Funding Program

###### Maximum payment of $495,000,000

**301.** There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of Transport, in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the Treasury Board, a sum not exceeding four hundred and ninety-five million dollars to provide payments to provinces and territories under the Provincial-Territorial Infrastructure Base Funding Program for infrastructure projects.

## Communities Component of the Building Canada Fund

###### Maximum payment of $250,000,000

**302.** There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of Transport, in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the Treasury Board, a sum not exceeding two hundred and fifty million dollars to provide funding for infrastructure projects in communities that have a population of less than 100,000.

## Green Infrastructure Fund

###### Maximum payment of $200,000,000

**303.** There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of Transport, in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the Treasury Board, a sum not exceeding two hundred million dollars to support infrastructure projects that promote a clean environment.

## Community Adjustment Fund

###### Maximum payment of $51,000,000

**304.** There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of State (Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency), in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the Treasury Board, a sum not exceeding fifty-one million dollars to foster economic development, science and technology initiatives and other measures to promote economic diversification in communities in Atlantic Canada.

###### Maximum payment of $106,000,000

**305.** There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of State (Economic Development Agency of Canada for the Regions of Quebec), in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the Treasury Board, a sum not exceeding one hundred and six million dollars to foster economic development, science and technology initiatives and other measures to promote economic diversification in communities in the regions of Quebec.

###### Maximum payment of $175,000,000

**306.** There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of Industry, in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the Treasury Board, a sum not exceeding one hundred and seventy-five million dollars to foster economic development, science and technology initiatives and other measures to promote economic diversification in communities in Ontario.

###### Maximum payment of $17,000,000

**307.** There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development, in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the Treasury Board, a sum not exceeding seventeen million dollars to foster economic development, science and technology initiatives and other measures to promote economic diversification in communities in the territories.

###### Maximum payment of $154,000,000

**308.** There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of State (Western Economic Diversification), in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the Treasury Board, a sum not exceeding one hundred and fifty-four million dollars to foster economic development, science and technology initiatives and other measures to promote economic diversification in communities in Western Canada.

## Improving Infrastructure at Universities and Colleges

###### Maximum payment of $1,000,000,000

**309.** There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of Industry, in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the Treasury Board, a sum not exceeding one billion dollars to accelerate repairs and maintenance at post-secondary institutions.

## First Nations Housing

###### Maximum payment of $75,000,000

**310.** There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development, in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the Treasury Board, a sum not exceeding seventy-five million dollars to support on-reserve housing.

###### Maximum payment of $125,000,000

**311.** There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of Human Resources and Skills Development, in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the Treasury Board, a sum not exceeding one hundred and twenty-five million dollars to the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation to support on-reserve housing.

## Renovation and Retrofit of Social Housing

###### Maximum payment of $500,000,000

**312.** There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of Human Resources and Skills Development, in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the Treasury Board, a sum not exceeding five hundred million dollars to the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation to provide funding to the provinces and territories to address the backlog in demand for renovation and energy retrofits of social housing.

## Housing for Low-income Seniors

###### Maximum payment of $200,000,000

**313.** There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of Human Resources and Skills Development, in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the Treasury Board, a sum not exceeding two hundred million dollars to the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation to provide funding to the provinces and territories through the Affordable Housing Initiative for the construction of housing units for low-income seniors.

## Housing for Persons with Disabilities

###### Maximum payment of $25,000,000

**314.** There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of Human Resources and Skills Development, in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the Treasury Board, a sum not exceeding twenty-five million dollars to the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation to provide funding to the provinces and territories through the Affordable Housing Initiative for the construction of housing units for persons with disabilities.

## Northern Housing

###### Maximum payment of $100,000,000

**315.** There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of Human Resources and Skills Development, in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the Treasury Board, a sum not exceeding one hundred million dollars to the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation to provide funding to the territories for the renovation and construction of social housing units.

## Canada Health Infoway Inc.

###### Maximum payment of $500,000,000

**316.** There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of Health, a sum not exceeding five hundred million dollars to Canada Health Infoway Inc. for the development of electronic health records and related systems.

## PART 7 - NAVIGABLE WATERS PROTECTION ACT

## Amendments to the Act

**317.** [Amendment]

**318.** [Amendment]

**319.** [Amendment]

**320.** [Amendments]

**321.** [Amendment]

**322.** [Amendments]

**323.** [Amendment]

**324.** [Amendment]

**325.** [Amendment]

**326.** [Amendment]

**327.** [Amendment]

**328.** [Amendment]

**329.** [Amendment]

**330.** [Amendment]

**331.** [Amendment]

**332.** [Amendment]

**333.** [Amendment]

**334.** [Amendment]

**335.** [Amendment]

**336.** [Amendment]

**337.** [Amendment]

**338.** [Amendment]

**339.** [Amendment]

**340.** [Amendment]

## Consequential Amendment to the International Bridges and Tunnels Act

**341.** [Amendment]

## PART 8 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

## Division 1 - Wage Earner Protection Program

### Wage Earner Protection Program Act

**342.** [Amendment]

**343.** [Amendments]

**344.** [Amendment]

**345.** [Amendment]

**346.** [Amendments]

**347.** [Amendments]

### Wage Earner Protection Program Regulations

**348.** [Amendment]

**349.** [Amendments]

**350.** [Amendment]

**351.** [Amendments]

**352.** [Amendment]

**353.** [Amendments]

**354.** [Amendment]

### Consequential Amendments to the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act

**355.** [Amendment]

**356.** [Amendment]

### Transitional Provision

**357.** [Transitional Provision]

## Division 2 - Federal Financial Assistance for Students

### Canada Student Financial Assistance Act

**358.** [Amendment]

**359.** [Amendment]

**360.** [Amendment]

**361.** [Amendment]

**362.** [Amendment]

**363.** [Amendment]

**364.** [Amendment]

### Canada Student Loans Act

**365.** [Amendment]

**366.** [Amendment]

**367.** [Amendment]

### Consequential Amendment to the Budget Implementation Act, 2008

**368.** [Amendment]

## Division 3 - Crown Corporations

### Financial Administration Act

**369.** [Amendment]

**370.** [Amendments]

**371.** [Amendment]

**372.** [Amendment]

**373.** [Amendments]

**374.** [Amendment]

**375.** [Amendment]

### Consequential Amendments

#### Canada Council for the Arts Act

**376.** [Amendment]

#### Canada Employment Insurance Financing Board Act

**377.** [Amendment]

#### Canada Post Corporation Act

**378.** [Amendment]

#### Canadian Dairy Commission Act

**379.** [Amendment]

#### Canadian Race Relations Foundation Act

**380.** [Amendment]

#### Public Sector Pension Investment Board Act

**381.** [Amendment]

**382.** [Amendment]

## PART 9 - PAYMENTS TO PROVINCES

## Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements Act

**383.** [Amendment]

**384.** [Amendment]

**385.** [Amendment]

**386.** [Amendment]

**387.** [Amendment]

**388.** [Amendment]

**389.** [Amendments]

**390.** [Amendment]

**391.** [Amendment]

## Payment to Nova Scotia

###### Payment of $74,188,000

**392.** There may be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, on the requisition of the Minister of Finance, the sum of seventy-four million and one hundred and eighty-eight thousand dollars to Nova Scotia.

## PART 10 - EXPENDITURE RESTRAINT ACT

###### Enactment of Act

**393.** The [Expenditure Restraint Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.5.md), whose text is as follows and whose Schedules 1 and 2 are set out in Schedule 11 to this Act, is hereby enacted:

[See [Expenditure Restraint Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.5.md)]

## PART 11 - EQUITABLE COMPENSATION

## Public Sector Equitable Compensation Act

The following provision is not in force.

###### Enactment of Act

**394.** The [Public Sector Equitable Compensation Act](/canada/eng/acts/P/P-31.65.md) is enacted as follows:

[See [Public Sector Equitable Compensation Act](/canada/eng/acts/P/P-31.65.md)]

## Transitional Provisions

**395.** [Transitional Provision]

**396.** [Transitional Provision]

**397.** [Transitional Provision]

**398.** [Transitional Provision]

## Consequential Amendments

### Canadian Human Rights Act

The following provision is not in force.

**399.** [Amendment]

### Public Service Labour Relations Act

The following provision is not in force.

**400.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**401.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**402.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**403.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**404.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**405.** [Amendment]

## Coming into Force

###### Order in council

**(*)406.** Sections 394 and 399 to 405 come into force on a day to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

  * (*)[Note: Sections 394 and 399 to 405 not in force.]

## PART 12 - COMPETITION ACT

## Amendments to the Act

**407.** [Amendment]

**408.** [Amendment]

**409.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**410.** [Amendment]

**411.** [Amendments]

**412.** [Amendment]

**413.** [Amendment]

**414.** [Amendments]

**415.** [Amendment]

**416.** [Amendment]

**417.** [Amendment]

**418.** [Amendment]

**419.** [Amendment]

**420.** [Amendment]

**421.** [Amendment]

**422.** [Amendment]

**423.** [Amendment]

**424.** [Amendments]

**425.** [Amendment]

**426.** [Amendment]

**427.** [Amendments]

**428.** [Amendments]

The following provision is not in force.

**429.** [Amendment]

**430.** [Amendment]

**431.** [Amendments]

**432.** [Amendment]

**433.** [Amendment]

**434.** [Amendment]

**435.** [Amendment]

**436.** [Amendment]

**437.** [Amendment]

**438.** [Amendment]

**439.** [Amendment]

## Transitional Provision

**440.** [Transitional Provision]

## Consequential Amendments

### Competition Tribunal Act

**441.** [Amendment]

### Criminal Code

The following provision is not in force.

**442.** [Amendment]

### Shipping Conferences Exemption Act, 1987

**443.** [Amendment]

## Coming into Force

###### Sections 410, 429 and 442

**(*)444.** Sections 410, 429 and 442 come into force one year after the day on which this Act receives royal assent.

  * (*)[Note: Sections 410, 429 and 442 in force March 12, 2010.]

## PART 13 - INVESTMENT CANADA ACT

## Amendments to the Act

**445.** [Amendment]

**446.** [Amendment]

**447.** [Amendments]

**448.** [Amendments]

**449.** [Amendment]

**450.** [Amendment]

**451.** [Amendment]

**452.** [Amendment]

**453.** [Amendment]

**454.** [Amendments]

**455.** [Amendments]

**456.** [Amendment]

**457.** [Amendments]

**458.** [Amendments]

**459.** [Amendment]

**460.** [Amendments]

**461.** [Amendment]

**462.** [Amendments]

## Transitional Provisions

**463.** [Transitional Provision]

**464.** [Transitional Provision]

## Coming into Force

###### February 6, 2009

  * **465.** (1) Sections 445, 447 and 453 to 456, subsections 457(1) to (4), section 460 and subsections 462(1), (3), (4) and (6) are deemed to have come into force on February 6, 2009.

  * ###### Subsections 448(1) and (2)

(*)(2) Subsections 448(1) and (2) come into force on a day to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

    * (*)[Note: Subsections 448(1) and (2) not in force.]

## PART 14 - CANADA TRANSPORTATION ACT

## Amendments to the Act

The following provision is not in force.

**466.** [Amendment]

The following provision is not in force.

**467.** [Amendment]

## Coming into Force

###### Order in council

**(*)468.** Sections 466 and 467 come into force on a day to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council made on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport.

  * (*)[Note: Sections 466 and 467 not in force.]

## PART 15 - AIR CANADA PUBLIC PARTICIPATION ACT

## Amendments to the Act

The following provision is not in force.

**469.** [Amendments]

## Transitional Provisions

The following provision is not in force.

**470.** [Transitional Provision]

## Coming into Force

###### Order in council

**(*)471.** Sections 469 and 470 come into force on a day to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council made on the recommendation of the Minister of Finance.

  * (*)*[Note: Sections 469 and 470 not in force.]

## SCHEDULE 1 - (Section 127)

[Amendment]

## SCHEDULE 2 - (Section 170)

[Amendment]

## SCHEDULE 3 - (Section 213)

[Amendment]

## SCHEDULE 4 - (Section 215)

[Amendment]

## SCHEDULE 5 - (Section 218)

[Amendment]

## SCHEDULE 6 - (Subsection 220(1))

[Amendment]

## SCHEDULE 7 - (Subsection 220(2))

[Amendment]

## SCHEDULE 8 - (Subsection 224(1))

[Amendment]

The following schedule is not in force.

## SCHEDULE 9

[Amendment]

## SCHEDULE 10 - (Section 225)

**Column 1**| **Column 2**  
---|---  
**Number of Hours of Insurable Employment**| **Number of Weeks of Benefits**  
420–454| 15  
455–489| 15  
490–524| 16  
525–559| 16  
560–594| 17  
595–629| 17  
630–664| 18  
665–699| 18  
700–734| 19  
735–769| 19  
770–804| 20  
805–839| 20  
840–874| 21  
875–909| 21  
910–944| 22  
945–979| 22  
980–1,014| 23  
1,015–1,049| 23  
1,050–1,084| 24  
1,085–1,119| 24  
1,120–1,154| 25  
1,155–1,189| 25  
1,190–1,224| 26  
1,225–1,259| 26  
1,260–1,294| 27  
1,295–1,329| 27  
1,330–1,364| 28  
1,365–1,399| 28  
1,400–1,434| 29  
1,435–1,469| 30  
1,470–1,504| 31  
1,505–1,539| 32  
1,540–1,574| 33  
1,575–1,609| 34  
1,610–1,644| 35  
1,645–1,679| 36  
1,680–1,714| 37  
1,715–1,749| 38  
1,750–1,784| 39  
1,785–1,819| 40  
1,820 or more| 41  
  
## SCHEDULE 11 - (Section 393)

[See [Expenditure Restraint Act](/canada/eng/acts/E/E-15.5.md)]
  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada
