# Canadian Peacekeeping Service Medal Act

S.C. 1997, c. 31

Assented to 1997-04-25

An Act respecting the establishment and award of a Canadian Peacekeeping Service Medal for Canadians who have served with an international peacekeeping mission

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Canadian Peacekeeping Service Medal Act](/canada/eng/acts/C/C-21.1.md).

###### Definition of "Minister"

**2.** In this Act, “Minister” means the Minister of National Defence.

###### Design of Medal

**3.** The Governor in Council may determine the design of the Canadian Peacekeeping Service Medal and its associated ribbon.

###### Purpose and award of Medal

**4.** (1) The Medal shall represent the peacekeeping service performed with a force under the auspices of the United Nations, or with another international force, and may be awarded by the Governor in Council to any Canadian citizen who serves at the initiative, by the nomination or with the agreement of the Government of Canada, with such a force.

###### Single award

(2) The Medal shall not be awarded twice to the same person.

###### Excluded persons

(3) The Medal shall not be awarded to a person within a class of persons excluded by the regulations.

###### Posthumous award

**5.** (1) The Medal may be awarded posthumously.

###### Next of kin

(2) Where a Medal is awarded posthumously, it shall be presented to the next of kin specified by the person in whose name it is awarded or, if that next of kin is deceased or cannot be readily located, to the person best suited, in the opinion of the Minister, to receive it.

###### Wearing of Medal

**6.** The Medal shall be worn in accordance with the Canadian Order of Precedence of Orders, Decorations and Medals.

###### Nomination by Minister

**7.** (1) The Minister shall nominate for award of the Medal those persons who are qualified and who are members or former members of the Canadian Forces.

###### Nomination by Solicitor General

(2) The Solicitor General shall nominate for award of the Medal those persons who are qualified and who are members or former members of a Canadian police force.

###### Nomination by another Minister

(3) Any minister of the Crown may nominate for award of the Medal any person who is qualified and who is serving under the administration of the minister of the Crown or in a program under the administration of the minister of the Crown.

###### Regulations

**8.** The Governor in Council may make regulations

  * (_a_) respecting the qualifications of persons or classes of persons who may be awarded the Medal;

  * (_b_) prescribing classes of persons who are excluded from entitlement to a Medal; and

  * (_c_) prescribing persons who may be considered as next of kin.

  * 1997, c. 31, s. 8;
  * 1999, c. 31, s. 40(F);
  * 2000, c. 12, s. 69.

###### Prerogative not affected

**9.** Nothing in this Act limits the right of the Governor General to exercise all powers and authorities of Her Majesty in respect of the Canadian Peacekeeping Service Medal. 
  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada
