# Commercial Arbitration Act

R.S.C., 1985, c. 17 (2nd Supp.)

An Act relating to commercial arbitration

[1986, c. 22, assented to 17th June, 1986]

## SHORT TITLE

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Commercial Arbitration Act](/canada/eng/acts/C/C-34.6.md).

## INTERPRETATION

###### Definitions

**2.** In this Act,

**“Code”** - _« Code »_

    

“Code” means the Commercial Arbitration Code, based on the model law adopted by the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law on June 21, 1985, as set out in Schedule 1;

**“Crown corporation”** - _« société d’État »_

    

“Crown corporation” means a Crown corporation as defined in section 83 of the [Financial Administration Act](/canada/eng/acts/F/F-11.md);

    

“department”[Repealed, R.S., 1985, c. 1 (4th Supp.), s. 8]

**“departmental corporation”** - _« établissement public »_

    

“departmental corporation” means a departmental corporation as defined in section 2 of the [Financial Administration Act](/canada/eng/acts/F/F-11.md).

  * R.S., 1985, c. 17 (2nd Supp.), s. 2, c. 1 (4th Supp.), s. 8;
  * 2012, c. 26, s. 23.

Previous Version

###### Other words and expressions

**3.** Words and expressions used in this Act have the meaning assigned to them by the Code.

###### Ordinary meaning

**4.** (1) This Act shall be interpreted in good faith in accordance with the ordinary meaning to be given to its terms in their context and in the light of its object and purpose.

###### Recourse to certain documents

(2) In interpreting the Code, recourse may be had to

  * (_a_) the Report of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law on the work of its eighteenth session, held from June 3 to 21, 1985; and

  * (_b_) the Analytical Commentary contained in the Report of the Secretary General to the eighteenth session of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law.

## APPLICATION

###### Law in force

**5.** (1) Subject to this section, the Code has the force of law in Canada.

###### Limitation to certain federal activities

(2) The Code applies only in relation to matters where at least one of the parties to the arbitration is Her Majesty in right of Canada, a departmental corporation or a Crown corporation or in relation to maritime or admiralty matters.

###### When applicable

(3) The Code applies to arbitral awards and arbitration agreements whether made before or after the coming into force of this Act.

Meaning of “commercial arbitration”

(4) For greater certainty, the expression “commercial arbitration” in Article 1(1) of the Code includes

  * (_a_) a claim under Article 1116 or 1117 of the Agreement, as defined in subsection 2(1) of the [North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act](/canada/eng/acts/N/N-23.8.md);

  * (_b_) a claim under Article G-17 or G-18 of the Agreement, as defined in subsection 2(1) of the [Canada-Chile Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act](/canada/eng/acts/C/C-1.6.md);

  * (_c_) a claim under Article 819 or 820 of the Agreement, as defined in section 2 of the [Canada–Peru Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act](/canada/eng/acts/C/C-8.4.md);

  * (_d_) a claim under Article 819 or 820 of the Agreement, as defined in section 2 of the [Canada–Colombia Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act](/canada/eng/acts/C/C-1.65.md); and

  * (_e_) a claim under a provision, set out in column 1 of Schedule 2, of an agreement that is set out in column 2.

  * R.S., 1985, c. 17 (2nd Supp.), s. 5, c. 1 (4th Supp.), s. 9;
  * 1993, c. 44, s. 50;
  * 1997, c. 14, s. 32;
  * 2009, c. 16, s. 23;
  * 2010, c. 4, s. 23;
  * 2012, c. 26, s. 24.

Previous Version

## COURTS

###### Definition of "court" or "competent court"

**6.** In the Code, “court” or “competent court” means a superior, county or district court, except when the context requires otherwise.

  * R.S., 1985, c. 17 (2nd Supp.), s. 6;
  * 2002, c. 8, s. 125.

Previous Version

## PUBLICATION

###### Publication

**7.** The Minister of Justice shall cause to be published in the [Canada Gazette](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) the documents referred to in paragraphs 4(2)(_a_) and (_b_) forthwith on the coming into force of this Act.

## REGULATIONS

###### Terms and conditions for arbitration agreements

**8.** The Governor in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Justice, may make regulations prescribing the terms and conditions on which Her Majesty in right of Canada, a departmental corporation or a Crown corporation may enter into an arbitration agreement.

  * R.S., 1985, c. 17 (2nd Supp.), s. 8, c. 1 (4th Supp.), s. 10.

###### General

**9.** The Minister of Justice may make such regulations as are necessary for the purpose of carrying out this Act or for giving effect to any of the provisions thereof.

## HER MAJESTY IS BOUND

###### Binding on Her Majesty

**10.** This Act is binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada.

## COMING INTO FORCE

###### Coming into force

**(*)11.** This Act shall come into force on a day to be fixed by proclamation.

  * (*)[Note: Act in force August 10, 1986, _see_ SI/86-155.]

## SCHEDULE 1 - (Section 2)

## **COMMERCIAL ARBITRATION CODE**

(Based on the Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration as adopted by the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law on June 21, 1985)

_Note: The word “international”, which appears in paragraph (1) of article 1 of the Model Law, has been deleted from paragraph (1) of article 1 below. Paragraphs (3) and (4) of article 1, which contain a description of when arbitration is international, are deleted. Paragraph (5) appears as paragraph (3)._

_Any additions or substitutions to the Model Law are indicated by the use of italics._

_Except as otherwise indicated, the material that follows reproduces exactly the Model Law._

## **CHAPTER I. GENERAL PROVISIONS**

### Article 1  
Scope of Application

  * (1) This _Code_ applies to commercial arbitration, subject to any agreement in force between _Canada_ and any other State or States.

  * (2) The provisions of this _Code_, except articles 8, 9, 35 and 36, apply only if the place of arbitration is in _Canada_.

  * (3) This _Code_ shall not affect any other law of _Parliament_ by virtue of which certain disputes may not be submitted to arbitration or may be submitted to arbitration only according to provisions other than those of this _Code_.

### Article 2  
Definitions and Rules of Interpretation

For the purposes of this _Code_:

  * (_a_) “arbitration” means any arbitration whether or not administered by a permanent arbitral institution;

  * (_b_) “arbitral tribunal” means a sole arbitrator or a panel of arbitrators;

  * (_c_) “court” means a body or organ of the judicial system of a State;

  * (_d_) where a provision of this _Code_, except article 28, leaves the parties free to determine a certain issue, such freedom includes the right of the parties to authorize a third party, including an institution, to make that determination;

  * (_e_) where a provision of this _Code_ refers to the fact that the parties have agreed or that they may agree or in any other way refers to an agreement of the parties, such agreement includes any arbitration rules referred to in that agreement;

  * (_f_) where a provision of this _Code_, other than in articles 25(_a_) and 32(2)(_a_), refers to a claim, it also applies to a counter-claim, and where it refers to a defence, it also applies to a defence to such counter-claim.

### Article 3  
Receipt of Written Communications

  * (1) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties:

    * (_a_) any written communication is deemed to have been received if it is delivered to the addressee personally or if it is delivered at his place of business, habitual residence or mailing address; if none of these can be found after making a reasonable inquiry, a written communication is deemed to have been received if it is sent to the addressee’s last-known place of business, habitual residence or mailing address by registered letter or any other means which provides a record of the attempt to deliver it;

    * (_b_) the communication is deemed to have been received on the day it is so delivered.

  * (2) The provisions of this article do not apply to communications in court proceedings.

### Article 4  
Waiver of Right to Object

A party who knows that any provision of this _Code_ from which the parties may derogate or any requirement under the arbitration agreement has not been complied with and yet proceeds with the arbitration without stating his objection to such non-compliance without undue delay or, if a time-limit is provided therefor, within such period of time, shall be deemed to have waived his right to object.

### Article 5  
Extent of Court Intervention

In matters governed by this _Code_, no court shall intervene except where so provided in this _Code_.

### Article 6  
Court or Other Authority for Certain Functions of Arbitration Assistance and Supervision

The functions referred to in articles 11(3), 11(4), 13(3), 14, 16(3) and 34(2) shall be performed by _the Federal Court or any superior, county or district court_.

## **CHAPTER II. ARBITRATION AGREEMENT**

### Article 7  
Definition and Form of Arbitration Agreement

  * (1) “Arbitration agreement” is an agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defined legal relationship, whether contractual or not. An arbitration agreement may be in the form of an arbitration clause in a contract or in the form of a separate agreement.

  * (2) The arbitration agreement shall be in writing. An agreement is in writing if it is contained in a document signed by the parties or in an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means of telecommunication which provide a record of the agreement, or in an exchange of statements of claim and defence in which the existence of an agreement is alleged by one party and not denied by another. The reference in a contract to a document containing an arbitration clause constitutes an arbitration agreement provided that the contract is in writing and the reference is such as to make that clause part of the contract.

### Article 8  
Arbitration Agreement and Substantive Claim before Court

  * (1) A court before which an action is brought in a matter which is the subject of an arbitration agreement shall, if a party so requests not later than when submitting his first statement on the substance of the dispute, refer the parties to arbitration unless it finds that the agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed.

  * (2) Where an action referred to in paragraph (1) of this article has been brought, arbitral proceedings may nevertheless be commenced or continued, and an award may be made, while the issue is pending before the court.

### Article 9  
Arbitration Agreement and Interim Measures by Court

It is not incompatible with an arbitration agreement for a party to request, before or during arbitral proceedings, from a court an interim measure of protection and for a court to grant such measure.

## **CHAPTER III. COMPOSITION OF ARBITRAL TRIBUNAL**

### Article 10  
Number of Arbitrators

  * (1) The parties are free to determine the number of arbitrators.

  * (2) Failing such determination, the number of arbitrators shall be three.

### Article 11  
Appointment of Arbitrators

  * (1) No person shall be precluded by reason of his nationality from acting as an arbitrator, unless otherwise agreed by the parties.

  * (2) The parties are free to agree on a procedure of appointing the arbitrator or arbitrators, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (4) and (5) of this article.

  * (3) Failing such agreement,

    * (_a_) in an arbitration with three arbitrators, each party shall appoint one arbitrator, and the two arbitrators thus appointed shall appoint the third arbitrator; if a party fails to appoint the arbitrator within thirty days of receipt of a request to do so from the other party, or if the two arbitrators fail to agree on the third arbitrator within thirty days of their appointment, the appointment shall be made, upon request of a party, by the court or other authority specified in article 6;

    * (_b_) in an arbitration with a sole arbitrator, if the parties are unable to agree on the arbitrator, he shall be appointed, upon request of a party, by the court or other authority specified in article 6.

  * (4) Where, under an appointment procedure agreed upon by the parties,

    * (_a_) a party fails to act as required under such procedure, or

    * (_b_) the parties, or two arbitrators, are unable to reach an agreement expected of them under such procedure, or

    * (_c_) a third party, including an institution, fails to perform any function entrusted to it under such procedure,

any party may request the court or other authority specified in article 6 to take the necessary measure, unless the agreement on the appointment procedure provides other means for securing the appointment.

  * (5) A decision on a matter entrusted by paragraph (3) or (4) of this article to the court or other authority specified in article 6 shall be subject to no appeal. The court or other authority, in appointing an arbitrator, shall have due regard to any qualifications required of the arbitrator by the agreement of the parties and to such considerations as are likely to secure the appointment of an independent and impartial arbitrator and, in the case of a sole or third arbitrator, shall take into account as well the advisability of appointing an arbitrator of a nationality other than those of the parties.

### Article 12  
Grounds for Challenge

  * (1) When a person is approached in connection with his possible appointment as an arbitrator, he shall disclose any circumstances likely to give rise to justifiable doubts as to his impartiality or independence. An arbitrator, from the time of his appointment and throughout the arbitral proceedings, shall without delay disclose any such circumstances to the parties unless they have already been informed of them by him.

  * (2) An arbitrator may be challenged only if circumstances exist that give rise to justifiable doubts as to his impartiality or independence, or if he does not possess qualifications agreed to by the parties. A party may challenge an arbitrator appointed by him, or in whose appointment he has participated, only for reasons of which he becomes aware after the appointment has been made.

### Article 13  
Challenge Procedure

  * (1) The parties are free to agree on a procedure for challenging an arbitrator, subject to the provisions of paragraph (3) of this article.

  * (2) Failing such agreement, a party who intends to challenge an arbitrator shall, within fifteen days after becoming aware of the constitution of the arbitral tribunal or after becoming aware of any circumstances referred to in article 12(2), send a written statement of the reasons for the challenge to the arbitral tribunal. Unless the challenged arbitrator withdraws from his office or the other party agrees to the challenge, the arbitral tribunal shall decide on the challenge.

  * (3) If a challenge under any procedure agreed upon by the parties or under the procedure of paragraph (2) of this article is not successful, the challenging party may request, within thirty days after having received notice of the decision rejecting the challenge, the court or other authority specified in article 6 to decide on the challenge, which decision shall be subject to no appeal; while such a request is pending, the arbitral tribunal, including the challenged arbitrator, may continue the arbitral proceedings and make an award.

### Article 14  
Failure or Impossibility to Act

  * (1) If an arbitrator becomes de jure or de facto unable to perform his functions or for other reasons fails to act without undue delay, his mandate terminates if he withdraws from his office or if the parties agree on the termination. Otherwise, if a controversy remains concerning any of these grounds, any party may request the court or other authority specified in article 6 to decide on the termination of the mandate, which decision shall be subject to no appeal.

  * (2) If, under this article or article 13(2), an arbitrator withdraws from his office or a party agrees to the termination of the mandate of an arbitrator, this does not imply acceptance of the validity of any ground referred to in this article or article 12(2).

### Article 15  
Appointment of Substitute Arbitrator

Where the mandate of an arbitrator terminates under article 13 or 14 or because of his withdrawal from office for any other reason or because of the revocation of his mandate by agreement of the parties or in any other case of termination of his mandate, a substitute arbitrator shall be appointed according to the rules that were applicable to the appointment of the arbitrator being replaced.

## **CHAPTER IV. JURISDICTION OF ARBITRAL TRIBUNAL**

### Article 16  
Competence of Arbitral Tribunal to Rule on its Jurisdiction

  * (1) The arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction, including any objections with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration agreement. For that purpose, an arbitration clause which forms part of a contract shall be treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the contract. A decision by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and void shall not entail ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration clause.

  * (2) A plea that the arbitral tribunal does not have jurisdiction shall be raised not later than the submission of the statement of defence. A party is not precluded from raising such a plea by the fact that he has appointed, or participated in the appointment of, an arbitrator. A plea that the arbitral tribunal is exceeding the scope of its authority shall be raised as soon as the matter alleged to be beyond the scope of its authority is raised during the arbitral proceedings. The arbitral tribunal may, in either case, admit a later plea if it considers the delay justified.

  * (3) The arbitral tribunal may rule on a plea referred to in paragraph (2) of this article either as a preliminary question or in an award on the merits. If the arbitral tribunal rules as a preliminary question that it has jurisdiction, any party may request, within thirty days after having received notice of that ruling, the court specified in article 6 to decide the matter, which decision shall be subject to no appeal; while such a request is pending, the arbitral tribunal may continue the arbitral proceedings and make an award.

### Article 17  
Power of Arbitral Tribunal to Order Interim Measures

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral tribunal may, at the request of a party, order any party to take such interim measure of protection as the arbitral tribunal may consider necessary in respect of the subject-matter of the dispute. The arbitral tribunal may require any party to provide appropriate security in connection with such measure.

## **CHAPTER V. CONDUCT OF ARBITRAL PROCEEDINGS**

### Article 18  
Equal Treatment of Parties

The parties shall be treated with equality and each party shall be given a full opportunity of presenting his case.

### Article 19  
Determination of Rules of Procedure

  * (1) Subject to the provisions of this _Code_, the parties are free to agree on the procedure to be followed by the arbitral tribunal in conducting the proceedings.

  * (2) Failing such agreement, the arbitral tribunal may, subject to the provisions of this _Code_, conduct the arbitration in such manner as it considers appropriate. The power conferred upon the arbitral tribunal includes the power to determine the admissibility, relevance, materiality and weight of any evidence.

### Article 20  
Place of Arbitration

  * (1) The parties are free to agree on the place of arbitration. Failing such agreement, the place of arbitration shall be determined by the arbitral tribunal having regard to the circumstances of the case, including the convenience of the parties.

  * (2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) of this article, the arbitral tribunal may, unless otherwise agreed by the parties, meet at any place it considers appropriate for consultation among its members, for hearing witnesses, experts or the parties, or for inspection of goods, other property or documents.

### Article 21  
Commencement of Arbitral Proceedings

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral proceedings in respect of a particular dispute commence on the date on which a request for that dispute to be referred to arbitration is received by the respondent.

### Article 22  
Language

  * (1) The parties are free to agree on the language or languages to be used in the arbitral proceedings. Failing such agreement, the arbitral tribunal shall determine the language or languages to be used in the proceedings. This agreement or determination, unless otherwise specified therein, shall apply to any written statement by a party, any hearing and any award, decision or other communication by the arbitral tribunal.

  * (2) The arbitral tribunal may order that any documentary evidence shall be accompanied by a translation into the language or languages agreed upon by the parties or determined by the arbitral tribunal.

### Article 23  
Statements of Claim and Defence

  * (1) Within the period of time agreed by the parties or determined by the arbitral tribunal, the claimant shall state the facts supporting his claim, the points at issue and the relief or remedy sought, and the respondent shall state his defence in respect of these particulars, unless the parties have otherwise agreed as to the required elements of such statements. The parties may submit with their statements all documents they consider to be relevant or may add a reference to the documents or other evidence they will submit.

  * (2) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, either party may amend or supplement his claim or defence during the course of the arbitral proceedings, unless the arbitral tribunal considers it inappropriate to allow such amendment having regard to the delay in making it.

### Article 24  
Hearings and Written Proceedings

  * (1) Subject to any contrary agreement by the parties, the arbitral tribunal shall decide whether to hold oral hearings for the presentation of evidence or for oral argument, or whether the proceedings shall be conducted on the basis of documents and other materials. However, unless the parties have agreed that no hearings shall be held, the arbitral tribunal shall hold such hearings at an appropriate stage of the proceedings, if so requested by a party.

  * (2) The parties shall be given sufficient advance notice of any hearing and of any meeting of the arbitral tribunal for the purposes of inspection of goods, other property or documents.

  * (3) All statements, documents or other information supplied to the arbitral tribunal by one party shall be communicated to the other party. Also any expert report or evidentiary document on which the arbitral tribunal may rely in making its decision shall be communicated to the parties.

### Article 25  
Default of a Party

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, if, without showing sufficient cause,

  * (_a_) the claimant fails to communicate his statement of claim in accordance with article 23(1), the arbitral tribunal shall terminate the proceedings;

  * (_b_) the respondent fails to communicate his statement of defence in accordance with article 23(1), the arbitral tribunal shall continue the proceedings without treating such failure in itself as an admission of the claimant’s allegations;

  * (_c_) any party fails to appear at a hearing or to produce documentary evidence, the arbitral tribunal may continue the proceedings and make the award on the evidence before it.

### Article 26  
Expert Appointed by Arbitral Tribunal

  * (1) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral tribunal

    * (_a_) may appoint one or more experts to report to it on specific issues to be determined by the arbitral tribunal;

    * (_b_) may require a party to give the expert any relevant information or to produce, or to provide access to, any relevant documents, goods or other property for his inspection.

  * (2) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, if a party so requests or if the arbitral tribunal considers it necessary, the expert shall, after delivery of his written or oral report, participate in a hearing where the parties have the opportunity to put questions to him and to present expert witnesses in order to testify on the points at issue.

### Article 27  
Court Assistance in Taking Evidence

The arbitral tribunal or a party with the approval of the arbitral tribunal may request from a competent court of _Canada_ assistance in taking evidence. The court may execute the request within its competence and according to its rules on taking evidence.

## **CHAPTER VI. MAKING OF AWARD AND TERMINATION OF PROCEEDINGS**

### Article 28  
Rules Applicable to Substance of Dispute

  * (1) The arbitral tribunal shall decide the dispute in accordance with such rules of law as are chosen by the parties as applicable to the substance of the dispute. Any designation of the law or legal system of a given State shall be construed, unless otherwise expressed, as directly referring to the substantive law of that State and not to its conflict of laws rules.

  * (2) Failing any designation by the parties, the arbitral tribunal shall apply the law determined by the conflict of laws rules which it considers applicable.

  * (3) The arbitral tribunal shall decide ex aequo et bono or as _amiable compositeur_ only if the parties have expressly authorized it to do so.

  * (4) In all cases, the arbitral tribunal shall decide in accordance with the terms of the contract and shall take into account the usages of the trade applicable to the transaction.

### Article 29  
Decision-making by Panel of Arbitrators

In arbitral proceedings with more than one arbitrator, any decision of the arbitral tribunal shall be made, unless otherwise agreed by the parties, by a majority of all its members. However, questions of procedure may be decided by a presiding arbitrator, if so authorized by the parties or all members of the arbitral tribunal.

### Article 30  
Settlement

  * (1) If, during arbitral proceedings, the parties settle the dispute, the arbitral tribunal shall terminate the proceedings and, if requested by the parties and not objected to by the arbitral tribunal, record the settlement in the form of an arbitral award on agreed terms.

  * (2) An award on agreed terms shall be made in accordance with the provisions of article 31 and shall state that it is an award. Such an award has the same status and effect as any other award on the merits of the case.

### Article 31  
Form and Contents of Award

  * (1) The award shall be made in writing and shall be signed by the arbitrator or arbitrators. In arbitral proceedings with more than one arbitrator, the signature of the majority of all members of the arbitral tribunal shall suffice, provided that the reason for any omitted signature is stated.

  * (2) The award shall state the reasons upon which it is based, unless the parties have agreed that no reasons are to be given or the award is an award on agreed terms under article 30.

  * (3) The award shall state its date and the place of arbitration as determined in accordance with article 20(1). The award shall be deemed to have been made at that place.

  * (4) After the award is made, a copy signed by the arbitrators in accordance with paragraph (1) of this article shall be delivered to each party.

### Article 32  
Termination of Proceedings

  * (1) The arbitral proceedings are terminated by the final award or by an order of the arbitral tribunal in accordance with paragraph (2) of this article.

  * (2) The arbitral tribunal shall issue an order for the termination of the arbitral proceedings when:

    * (_a_) the claimant withdraws his claim, unless the respondent objects thereto and the arbitral tribunal recognizes a legitimate interest on his part in obtaining a final settlement of the dispute;

    * (_b_) the parties agree on the termination of the proceedings;

    * (_c_) the arbitral tribunal finds that the continuation of the proceedings has for any other reason become unnecessary or impossible.

  * (3) The mandate of the arbitral tribunal terminates with the termination of the arbitral proceedings, subject to the provisions of articles 33 and 34(4).

### Article 33  
Correction and Interpretation of Award; Additional Award

  * (1) Within thirty days of receipt of the award, unless another period of time has been agreed upon by the parties:

    * (_a_) a party, with notice to the other party, may request the arbitral tribunal to correct in the award any errors in computation, any clerical or typographical errors or any errors of similar nature;

    * (_b_) if so agreed by the parties, a party, with notice to the other party, may request the arbitral tribunal to give an interpretation of a specific point or part of the award.

If the arbitral tribunal considers the request to be justified, it shall make the correction or give the interpretation within thirty days of receipt of the request. The interpretation shall form part of the award.

  * (2) The arbitral tribunal may correct any error of the type referred to in paragraph (1)(_a_) of this article on its own initiative within thirty days of the date of the award.

  * (3) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, a party, with notice to the other party, may request, within thirty days of receipt of the award, the arbitral tribunal to make an additional award as to claims presented in the arbitral proceedings but omitted from the award. If the arbitral tribunal considers the request to be justified, it shall make the additional award within sixty days.

  * (4) The arbitral tribunal may extend, if necessary, the period of time within which it shall make a correction, interpretation or an additional award under paragraph (1) or (3) of this article.

  * (5) The provisions of article 31 shall apply to a correction or interpretation of the award or to an additional award.

## **CHAPTER VII. RECOURSE AGAINST AWARD**

### Article 34  
Application for Setting Aside as Exclusive Recourse against Arbitral Award

  * (1) Recourse to a court against an arbitral award may be made only by an application for setting aside in accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3) of this article.

  * (2) An arbitral award may be set aside by the court specified in article 6 only if:

    * (_a_) the party making the application furnishes proof that:

      * (i) a party to the arbitration agreement referred to in article 7 was under some incapacity; or the said agreement is not valid under the law to which the parties have subjected it or, failing any indication thereon, under the law of _Canada_; or

      * (ii) the party making the application was not given proper notice of the appointment of an arbitrator or of the arbitral proceedings or was otherwise unable to present his case; or

      * (iii) the award deals with a dispute not contemplated by or not falling within the terms of the submission to arbitration, or contains decisions on matters beyond the scope of the submission to arbitration, provided that, if the decisions on matters submitted to arbitration can be separated from those not so submitted, only that part of the award which contains decisions on matters not submitted to arbitration may be set aside; or

      * (iv) the composition of the arbitral tribunal or the arbitral procedure was not in accordance with the agreement of the parties, unless such agreement was in conflict with a provision of this _Code_ from which the parties cannot derogate, or, failing such agreement, was not in accordance with this _Code_; or

    * (_b_) the court finds that:

      * (i) the subject-matter of the dispute is not capable of settlement by arbitration under the law of _Canada_; or

      * (ii) the award is in conflict with the public policy of _Canada_.

  * (3) An application for setting aside may not be made after three months have elapsed from the date on which the party making that application had received the award or, if a request had been made under article 33, from the date on which that request had been disposed of by the arbitral tribunal.

  * (4) The court, when asked to set aside an award, may, where appropriate and so requested by a party, suspend the setting aside proceedings for a period of time determined by it in order to give the arbitral tribunal an opportunity to resume the arbitral proceedings or to take such other action as in the arbitral tribunal’s opinion will eliminate the grounds for setting aside.

## **CHAPTER VIII. RECOGNITION AND ENFORCEMENT OF AWARDS**

### Article 35  
Recognition and Enforcement

  * (1) An arbitral award, irrespective of the country in which it was made, shall be recognized as binding and, upon application in writing to the competent court, shall be enforced subject to the provisions of this article and of article 36.

  * (2) The party relying on an award or applying for its enforcement shall supply the duly authenticated original award or a duly certified copy thereof, and the original arbitration agreement referred to in article 7 or a duly certified copy thereof. If the award or agreement is not made in an official language of _Canada_, the party shall supply a duly certified translation thereof into such language.

### Article 36  
Grounds for Refusing Recognition or Enforcement

  * (1) Recognition or enforcement of an arbitral award, irrespective of the country in which it was made, may be refused only:

    * (_a_) at the request of the party against whom it is invoked, if that party furnishes to the competent court where recognition or enforcement is sought proof that:

      * (i) a party to the arbitration agreement referred to in article 7 was under some incapacity; or the said agreement is not valid under the law to which the parties have subjected it or, failing any indication thereon, under the law of the country where the award was made; or

      * (ii) the party against whom the award is invoked was not given proper notice of the appointment of an arbitrator or of the arbitral proceedings or was otherwise unable to present his case; or

      * (iii) the award deals with a dispute not contemplated by or not falling within the terms of the submission to arbitration, or it contains decisions on matters beyond the scope of the submission to arbitration, provided that, if the decisions on matters submitted to arbitration can be separated from those not so submitted, that part of the award which contains decisions on matters submitted to arbitration may be recognized and enforced; or

      * (iv) the composition of the arbitral tribunal or the arbitral procedure was not in accordance with the agreement of the parties or, failing such agreement, was not in accordance with the law of the country where the arbitration took place; or

      * (v) the award has not yet become binding on the parties or has been set aside or suspended by a court of the country in which, or under the law of which, that award was made; or

    * (_b_) if the court finds that:

      * (i) the subject-matter of the dispute is not capable of settlement by arbitration under the law of _Canada_; or

      * (ii) the recognition or enforcement of the award would be contrary to the public policy of _Canada_.

  * (2) If an application for setting aside or suspension of an award has been made to a court referred to in paragraph (1)(_a_)(v) of this article, the court where recognition or enforcement is sought may, if it considers it proper, adjourn its decision and may also, on the application of the party claiming recognition or enforcement of the award, order the other party to provide appropriate security.

  * R.S., 1985, c. 17 (2nd Supp.), Sch. 1;
  * 2012, c. 26, s. 25.

Previous Version

## SCHEDULE 2 - (Paragraph 5(4)(e))

Column 1| Column 2  
---|---  
Provisions| Agreement  
Article 9.20 or 9.21| Free Trade Agreement between Canada and the Republic of Panama, done at Ottawa on May 14, 2010  
  
  * 2012, c. 26, s. 26.
  *[R.S.C.]: Revised Statutes of Canada
