# Canada–Jordan Economic Growth and Prosperity Act

S.C. 2012, c. 18

Assented to 2012-06-29

An Act to implement the Free Trade Agreement between Canada and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, the Agreement on the Environment between Canada and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the Agreement on Labour Cooperation between Canada and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

## SHORT TITLE

The following provision is not in force.

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Canada–Jordan Economic Growth and Prosperity Act](/canada/eng/acts/C/C-6.45.md).

## INTERPRETATION

The following provision is not in force.

###### Definitions

**2.** The definitions in this section apply in this Act.

**“Agreement”** - _« Accord »_

    

“Agreement” means the Free Trade Agreement between Canada and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, signed on June 28, 2009.

**“federal law”** - _« texte législatif fédéral »_

    

“federal law” means the whole or any portion of an Act of Parliament or a regulation, order or other instrument issued, made or established in the exercise of a power conferred by or under an Act of Parliament.

**“Joint Commission”** - _« Commission mixte »_

    

“Joint Commission” means the Joint Commission established under Article 13-1 of the Agreement.

**“Minister”** - _« ministre »_

    

“Minister” means the Minister for International Trade.

**“related agreement”** - _« accord connexe »_

    

“related agreement” means

  * (_a_) the Agreement on the Environment between Canada and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, signed on June 28, 2009; or

  * (_b_) the Agreement on Labour Cooperation between Canada and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, signed on June 28, 2009.

The following provision is not in force.

###### Interpretation consistent with agreements

**3.** For greater certainty, this Act and any federal law that implements a provision of the Agreement or a related agreement or fulfils an obligation of the Government of Canada under the Agreement or a related agreement is to be interpreted in a manner consistent with the Agreement or related agreement, as the case may be.

The following provision is not in force.

###### Non-application of Act or Agreement to water

**4.** For greater certainty, nothing in this Act or the Agreement applies to natural surface or ground water in liquid, gaseous or solid state.

The following provision is not in force.

###### Construction

**5.** For greater certainty, nothing in this Act, by specific mention or omission, is to be construed to affect in any manner the right of Parliament to enact legislation to implement any provision of the Agreement or a related agreement or fulfil any of the obligations of the Government of Canada under the Agreement or a related agreement.

## HER MAJESTY

The following provision is not in force.

###### Binding on Her Majesty

**6.** This Act is binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada.

## PURPOSE

The following provision is not in force.

###### Purpose

**7.** The purpose of this Act is to implement the Agreement and the related agreements, the objectives of which, as elaborated more specifically through their provisions, are to

  * (_a_) establish a free trade area in accordance with the Agreement;

  * (_b_) promote, through the expansion of reciprocal trade, the harmonious development of the economic relations between Canada and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan in order to foster, in both countries, the advancement of economic activity;

  * (_c_) contribute, by the removal of barriers to trade, to the harmonious development and expansion of world trade;

  * (_d_) enhance and enforce environmental laws and regulations and strengthen cooperation on environmental matters;

  * (_e_) protect, enhance and enforce basic workers’ rights, strengthen cooperation on labour matters and build on the respective international commitments of Canada and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on labour matters; and

  * (_f_) promote sustainable development.

## CAUSES OF ACTION

The following provision is not in force.

###### Causes of action under Part 1

**8.** (1) No person has any cause of action and no proceedings of any kind shall be taken without the consent of the Attorney General of Canada to enforce or determine any right or obligation that is claimed or arises solely under or by virtue of Part 1 or an order made under that Part.

###### Causes of action under the Agreement or a related agreement

(2) Subject to Part Three and Annex 4 of the Agreement on Labour Cooperation between Canada and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, signed on June 28, 2009, no person has any cause of action and no proceedings of any kind shall be taken without the consent of the Attorney General of Canada to enforce or determine any right or obligation that is claimed or arises solely under or by virtue of the Agreement or a related agreement.

## PART 1 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AGREEMENT AND THE RELATED AGREEMENTS

## Approval

The following provision is not in force.

###### Agreements approved

**9.** The Agreement and the related agreements are approved.

## Administrative and Institutional Provisions

The following provision is not in force.

###### Canadian representative on Joint Commission

**10.** The Minister is the principal representative of Canada on the Joint Commission.

The following provision is not in force.

###### Payment of expenditures

**11.** The Government of Canada shall pay its appropriate share of the aggregate of any expenditures incurred by or on behalf of the Joint Commission.

## Panels, Committees, Subcommittees, Working Groups and Expert Groups

The following provision is not in force.

###### Powers of Minister

**12.** (1) The Minister may

  * (_a_) appoint representatives of Canada to any committee, subcommittee or working group referred to in paragraph 6 of Article 13-1 of the Agreement;

  * (_b_) appoint a panelist in accordance with Article 14-8 of the Agreement; and

  * (_c_) propose candidates to serve as the chair of a panel in accordance with that Article 14-8.

###### Powers of Minister of the Environment

(2) The Minister of the Environment may

  * (_a_) appoint representatives of Canada to the committee referred to in Article 15 of the Agreement on the Environment between Canada and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, signed on June 28, 2009;

  * (_b_) appoint a panelist in accordance with Annex I to that Agreement; and

  * (_c_) propose candidates to serve as the chairperson of a panel, or select the chairperson, in accordance with that Annex.

###### Powers of the Minister of Labour

(3) The Minister of Labour may

  * (_a_) appoint representatives of Canada to any committee, working group or expert group referred to in Article 7 of the Agreement on Labour Cooperation between Canada and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, signed on June 28, 2009;

  * (_b_) appoint a panelist in accordance with Annex 3 to that Agreement; and

  * (_c_) propose candidates to serve as the chairperson of a panel, or select the chairperson, in accordance with that Annex.

The following provision is not in force.

###### Administrative support

**13.** The Minister shall designate an agency, division or branch of the Government of Canada to facilitate the operation of Chapter 14 of the Agreement and to provide administrative assistance to panels established under that Chapter.

The following provision is not in force.

###### Payment of costs

**14.** The Government of Canada shall, under the Agreement and the related agreements, pay the costs or its appropriate share of the costs of

  * (_a_) the remuneration and expenses payable to members of panels, committees, subcommittees, working groups and expert groups, to independent experts and to the assistants of panel members; and

  * (_b_) the general expenses incurred by panels, committees, subcommittees, working groups and expert groups.

## Orders

The following provision is not in force.

###### Orders re Article 14-13

**15.** (1) The Governor in Council may, for the purpose of suspending benefits in accordance with Article 14-13 of the Agreement, by order, do any one or more of the following:

  * (_a_) suspend rights or privileges granted by Canada to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan or to goods of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan under the Agreement or any federal law;

  * (_b_) modify or suspend the application of any federal law with respect to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan or to goods of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan;

  * (_c_) extend the application of any federal law to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan or to goods of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan; and

  * (_d_) take any other measure that the Governor in Council considers necessary.

###### Period of order

(2) Unless repealed, an order made under subsection (1) has effect for the period specified in the order.

## PART 2 - RELATED AMENDMENTS

## Canadian International Trade Tribunal Act

**16.** [Amendment]

**17.** [Amendment]

**18.** [Amendment]

**19.** [Amendment]

**20.** [Amendment]

**21.** [Amendment]

## Crown Liability and Proceedings Act

**22.** [Amendment]

**23.** [Amendment]

## Customs Act

**24.** [Amendments]

**25.** [Amendment]

**26.** [Amendment]

**27.** [Amendment]

**28.** [Amendment]

**29.** [Amendment]

**30.** [Amendment]

**31.** [Amendment]

## Customs Tariff

**32.** [Amendment]

**33.** [Amendment]

**34.** [Amendment]

**35.** [Amendment]

**36.** [Amendment]

**37.** [Amendment]

**38.** [Amendment]

**39.** [Amendment]

**40.** [Amendments]

## Department of Human Resources and Skills Development Act

**41.** [Amendment]

## Financial Administration Act

**42.** [Amendment]

**43.** [Amendment]

## PART 3 - COORDINATING AMENDMENTS AND COMING INTO FORCE

## Coordinating Amendments

**44.** [Amendments]

**45.** [Amendments]

## Coming into Force

###### Order in council

**(*)46.** This Act, other than sections 44 and 45, comes into force on a day to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

  * (*)[Note: Sections 44 and 45 in force on assent June 29, 2012.]

The following schedule is not in force.

## SCHEDULE 1 - (Section 23)

[Amendment]

The following schedule is not in force.

## SCHEDULE 2 - (Section 31)

[Amendment]

The following schedule is not in force.

## SCHEDULE 3 - (Subsection 40(1))

[Amendment]

The following schedule is not in force.

## SCHEDULE 4 - (Section 41)

[Amendment]

The following schedule is not in force.

## SCHEDULE 5 - (Section 43)

[Amendment]
  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada
