# Yukon Waters Act

S.C. 1992, c. 40

Assented to 1992-06-23

An Act respecting water resources in the Yukon Territory

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of
Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

## SHORT TITLE

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Yukon Waters Act](/eng/acts/Y-4.6).

## INTERPRETATION

###### Definitions

**2.** In this Act,

“appurtenant undertaking”

« entreprise en cause »

    

“appurtenant undertaking” means the work described in a licence;

“authorized user”

« usager agréé »

    

“authorized user” means a person using waters without a licence but under the
authority of regulations made under paragraph 33(1)(_m_);

“authorized waste depositor”

« personne autorisée à déposer des déchets »

    

“authorized waste depositor” means a person depositing waste without a licence
but under the authority of regulations made under paragraph 33(1)(_n_);

“Board”

« Office »

    

“Board” means the Yukon Territory Water Board established by section 10;

“domestic user”

« usager domestique »

    

“domestic user” means a person using waters

(_a_) for household requirements, including, without limiting the generality
of the foregoing, sanitation and fire prevention,

(_b_) for the watering of domestic animals, or

(_c_) for the irrigation of a garden adjoining a dwelling-house that is not
ordinarily used in the growth of produce for a market;

“instream user”

« usager ordinaire »

    

“instream user” means a person using waters, otherwise than as described in
paragraph (_a_), (_b_) or (_c_) of the definition “use”, to earn income or for
subsistence purposes;

“licence”

« permis »

    

“licence” means a type A or type B licence permitting the use of waters or the
deposit of waste, or both, issued pursuant to section 14;

“licensee”

Version anglaise seulement

    

“licensee” means the holder of a licence;

“Minister”

« ministre »

    

“Minister” means

(_a_) except as provided in paragraph (_b_), the Minister of Indian Affairs
and Northern Development, or

(_b_) in respect of any matter related to the pipeline referred to in the
[Northern Pipeline Act](/eng/acts/N-26), such member of the Queen’s Privy
Council for Canada as is designated as the Minister for the purposes of that
Act;

“territorial lands”

« terres territoriales »

    

“territorial lands” means lands in the Yukon Territory that are vested in Her
Majesty in right of Canada or of which the Government of Canada has power to
dispose;

“use”

« utilisation »

    

“use”, in relation to waters, means a direct or indirect use of any kind,
including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing,

(_a_) any diversion or obstruction of waters,

(_b_) any alteration of the flow of waters, and

(_c_) any alteration of the bed or banks of a river, stream, lake or other
body of water, whether or not the body of water is seasonal,

but does not include a use connected with shipping activities that are
governed by the [Canada Shipping Act](/eng/acts/S-9);

“waste”

« déchet »

    

“waste” means

(_a_) any substance that, if added to water, would degrade or alter or form
part of a process of degradation or alteration of the quality of the water to
an extent that is detrimental to its use by people or by any animal, fish or
plant, or

(_b_) water that contains a substance in such a quantity or concentration, or
that has been so treated, processed or changed, by heat or other means, that
it would, if added to any other water, degrade or alter or form part of a
process of degradation or alteration of the quality of that water to the
extent described in paragraph (_a_),

and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, includes

(_c_) any substance or water that, for the purposes of the [Canada Water
Act](/eng/acts/C-11), is deemed to be waste,

(_d_) any substance or class of substances prescribed by regulations made
under subparagraph 33(1)(_b_)(i),

(_e_) water that contains any substance or class of substances in a quantity
or concentration that is equal to or greater than a quantity or concentration
prescribed in respect of that substance or class of substances by regulations
made under subparagraph 33(1)(_b_)(ii), and

(_f_) water that has been subjected to a treatment, process or change
prescribed by regulations made under subparagraph 33(1)(_b_)(iii);

“water management area”

« zone de gestion »

    

“water management area” means a water management area established by the
Governor in Council by regulations made under subparagraph 33(1)(_a_)(i);

“waters”

« eaux »

    

“waters” means any inland water, whether in a liquid or frozen state, on or
below the surface of the land in the Yukon Territory.

  * 1992, c. 40, s. 2;
  * 2002, c. 10, s. 193(F).

## GENERAL

## Her Majesty

###### Binding on Her Majesty

**3.** This Act is binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada, except that Her Majesty in right of Canada is not required to pay any fee prescribed by regulations made under subparagraph 33(1)(_k_)(i) or (ii).

###### Waters vested in Her Majesty

**4.** Subject to any rights, powers or privileges granted pursuant to the [Dominion Water Power Act](/eng/acts/W-4) or preserved under that Act, the property in and the right to the use and flow of all waters are vested in Her Majesty in right of Canada.

## Application of Other Acts

###### Other Acts, etc., to be complied with

**5.** Nothing in this Act, the regulations or a licence authorizes a person to contravene or fail to comply with any other Act or any regulation or order made thereunder, except as provided in that other Act, regulation or order.

## Delegation to Yukon Minister

###### Delegation to Yukon Minister

**6.** The Minister may, in writing, delegate to the person occupying the recognized position of Minister of the Yukon Territory responsible for water resources any of the Minister’s functions under section 10, subsections 13(1) and 14(6), section 20, paragraph 21(3)(_c_), subsection 23(4), paragraph 24(_b_) and section 31, either generally or as otherwise provided in the instrument of delegation.

## Agreements

###### Agreements with provinces and territories

**7.** With the approval of the Governor in Council and subject to any agreement entered into pursuant to section 5 or 11 of the [Canada Water Act](/eng/acts/C-11), the Minister may, on behalf of the Government of Canada, enter into an agreement with a provincial or territorial government providing for the management of any waters

(_a_) situated partially in the Yukon Territory and partially in a province or
the Northwest Territories; or

(_b_) flowing between the Yukon Territory and a province or the Northwest
Territories.

## USE OF WATERS

###### Use of waters in water management areas

**8.** (1) Except as authorized pursuant to the [Dominion Water Power Act](/eng/acts/W-4), and subject to subsection (2), no person shall use, or permit the use of, waters in a water management area except

(_a_) in accordance with the conditions of a licence; or

(_b_) as authorized by regulations made under paragraph 33(1)(_m_).

###### Exemptions from application of subsection (1)

(_a_) by a domestic user;

(_b_) by an instream user; or

(_c_) for the purpose of

(i) extinguishing a fire, or

(ii) on an emergency basis, controlling or preventing a flood.

###### Duties in certain cases

  * 1992, c. 40, s. 8;
  * 2002, c. 10, s. 194(F).

## DEPOSIT OF WASTE

###### Prohibition

**9.** (1) Except in accordance with the conditions of a licence or as authorized by regulations made under paragraph 33(1)(_n_), no person shall, subject to subsection (2), deposit or permit the deposit of waste

(_a_) in any waters in a water management area; or

(_b_) in any other place under conditions in which the waste, or any other
waste that results from the deposit of that waste, may enter any waters in a
water management area.

###### Exception

(_a_) is of a type and quantity and

(_b_) is deposited under conditions

###### Duty to report unlawful deposits of waste

(_a_) owns the waste or has the charge, management or control thereof, or

(_b_) caused or contributed to the deposit

## YUKON TERRITORY WATER BOARD

###### Establishment of Board

**10.** (1) There is hereby established the Yukon Territory Water Board, consisting of from four to nine members appointed by the Minister.

###### Membership

(_a_) at least one nominee of the Minister presiding over each of the
departments of the Government of Canada that, in the opinion of the Governor
in Council, are most directly concerned with the management of waters; and

(_b_) at least three nominees of the person occupying the recognized position
of Government Leader of the Yukon Territory.

###### Chairperson and vice-chairperson

###### Main office

###### Staff of Board

**11.** The Minister shall provide such officers and employees from within the public service of Canada and such professional and technical advisers as are necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the Board.

## OBJECTS AND POWERS OF BOARD

###### Objects

**12.** The objects of the Board are to provide for the conservation, development and utilization of waters in a manner that will provide the optimum benefit therefrom for all Canadians and for the residents of the Yukon Territory in particular.

  * 1992, c. 40, s. 12;
  * 2002, c. 10, s. 195(F).

###### Minister’s policy directions to Board

**13.** (1) The Minister may give written policy directions to the Board with respect to the carrying out of any of the Board’s functions under this Act, and the Board shall, subject to subsections (2) and (3), comply with any such policy directions.

###### Limitation

(_a_) are pending before the Board; or

(_b_) have been approved by the Board and are awaiting approval under
subsection 14(6).

###### Exception

###### [Statutory Instruments Act](/eng/acts/S-22)

###### Issue of licences

**14.** (1) Subject to this section, the Board may issue type A licences and type B licences, in accordance with the criteria set out in the regulations made under paragraph 33(1)(_c_), for a term not exceeding twenty-five years, permitting the applicant for the licence, on payment of the fees prescribed by regulations made under subparagraph 33(1)(_k_)(i)

to use waters or deposit waste, or both, in connection with the operation of
the appurtenant undertaking and in accordance with the conditions specified in
the licence.

(_a_) at the times and in the manner prescribed by any applicable regulations
made under paragraph 33(1)(_l_), or

(_b_) in the absence of such regulations, at the times and in the manner set
out in the licence,

###### Idem

###### Idem

###### Conditions for issue of licence

(_a_) either

(i) the use of waters or the deposit of waste proposed by the applicant would
not adversely affect, in a significant way, the use of waters, whether in or
outside the water management area to which the application relates,

(A) by any existing licensee, or

(B) by any other applicant whose proposed use of waters would take precedence
over the applicant’s proposed use by virtue of section 29, or

(ii) every licensee and applicant to whom subparagraph (i) applies has entered
into a compensation agreement with the applicant;

(_b_) compensation that the Board considers appropriate has been or will be
paid by the applicant to any other applicant described in clause (_a_)(i)(B)
but to whom paragraph (_a_) does not apply, and to

who were such licensees, users, depositors, owners, occupiers or holders,
whether in or outside the water management area to which the application
relates, at the time when the applicant filed an application with the Board in
accordance with the regulations made under paragraphs 33(1)(_d_) and (_e_),
who would be adversely affected by the use of waters or deposit of waste
proposed by the applicant, and who have notified the Board in response to the
notice of the application given pursuant to subsection 23(1) and within the
time period stipulated in that notice for making representations to the Board;

(i) licensees to whom paragraph (_a_) does not apply,

(ii) domestic users,

(iii) instream users,

(iv) authorized users,

(v) authorized waste depositors,

(vi) owners of property,

(vii) occupiers of property, and

(viii) holders of outfitting concessions, registered trapline holders, and
holders of other rights of a similar nature

(_c_) any waste that would be produced by the appurtenant undertaking will be
treated and disposed of in a manner that is appropriate for the maintenance of

(i) water quality standards prescribed by regulations made under paragraph
33(1)(_h_) or, in the absence of such regulations, such water quality
standards as the Board considers acceptable, and

(ii) effluent standards prescribed by regulations made under paragraph
33(1)(_i_) or, in the absence of such regulations, such effluent standards as
the Board considers acceptable; and

(_d_) the financial responsibility of the applicant, taking into account the
applicant’s past performance, is adequate for

(i) the completion of the appurtenant undertaking,

(ii) such mitigative measures as may be required, and

(iii) the satisfactory maintenance and restoration of the site in the event of
any future closing or abandonment of that undertaking.

###### Factors in determining compensation

(_a_) provable loss or damage;

(_b_) potential loss or damage;

(_c_) the extent and duration of the adverse effect, including the incremental
adverse effect;

(_d_) the extent of the use of waters by persons who would be adversely
affected; and

(_e_) nuisance, inconvenience and noise.

###### Minister or designated person must approve licence

(_a_) in the case of a type A licence, of the Minister; or

(_b_) in the case of a type B licence,

(i) of the chairperson of the Board, where no public hearing is held by the
Board in connection with the application for the licence, or

(ii) of the Minister, where a public hearing is held by the Board in
connection with the application for the licence.

  * 1992, c. 40, s. 14;
  * 2002, c. 10, s. 196(F).

###### Conditions of licence

**15.** (1) Subject to this Act and the regulations, the Board may include in a licence any conditions that it considers appropriate, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing,

(_a_) conditions relating to the manner of use of waters permitted to be used
under the licence;

(_b_) conditions relating to the quantity, concentration and types of waste
that may be deposited in any waters by the licensee;

(_c_) conditions under which any such waste may be so deposited;

(_d_) conditions relating to studies to be undertaken, works to be
constructed, plans to be submitted, and monitoring programs to be undertaken;
and

(_e_) conditions relating to any future closing or abandonment of the
appurtenant undertaking.

###### Board to minimize adverse effects

(_a_) licensees,

(_b_) domestic users,

(_c_) instream users,

(_d_) authorized users,

(_e_) authorized waste depositors,

(_f_) owners of property,

(_g_) occupiers of property, and

(_h_) holders of outfitting concessions, registered trapline holders, and
holders of other rights of a similar nature

###### Conditions relating to waste, where regulations under [Canada Water
Act](/eng/acts/C-11) apply

###### Conditions relating to waste, where regulations under [Canada Water
Act](/eng/acts/C-11) do not apply

(_a_) if any regulations made under paragraph 33(1)(_h_) are in force for
those waters, the Board may not include in the licence any conditions relating
to the deposit of waste in those waters that are not based on the water
quality standards prescribed for those waters by those regulations; and

(_b_) if any regulations made under paragraph 33(1)(_i_) are in force in
relation to those waters, the Board may not include in the licence any
conditions relating to the deposit of waste in those waters that are less
stringent than the effluent standards prescribed in relation to those waters
by those regulations.

###### Conditions relating to waste, where regulations under [Fisheries
Act](/eng/acts/F-14) apply

###### Conditions relating to design, etc., of works

###### Licence conditions deemed amended

  * 1992, c. 40, s. 15;
  * 2002, c. 10, s. 197(F).

###### Application for licence

**16.** (1) An application for a licence shall be in such form and contain such information as is prescribed by the regulations.

###### Information and studies to be provided to Board

###### Board may require security

**17.** (1) The Board may require an applicant for a licence, a licensee or a prospective assignee of a licence to furnish and maintain security with the Minister, in an amount specified in, or determined in accordance with, the regulations made under paragraph 33(1)(_g_) and in a form prescribed by those regulations or a form satisfactory to the Minister.

###### How security may be applied

(_a_) where the Minister is satisfied that a person who is entitled to be
compensated by a licensee pursuant to section 30 has taken all reasonable
measures to recover compensation from the licensee and has been unsuccessful
in that recovery, the security may be applied to compensate that person,
either fully or partially; and

(_b_) the security may be applied to reimburse Her Majesty in right of Canada,
either fully or partially, for reasonable costs incurred by Her Majesty in
right of Canada pursuant to subsection 37(3) or 39(1), subject to subsection
(3).

###### Limitation

###### Idem

###### Refund of security

(_a_) an appurtenant undertaking has been permanently closed or permanently
abandoned, or

(_b_) a licence has been assigned,

###### Renewal, amendment and cancellation of licences

**18.** (1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), the Board may

(_a_) renew a licence, each renewal being for a term not exceeding twenty-five
years, either with or without changes to the conditions of the licence,

(i) on the application of the licensee, or

(ii) in any other case, where the renewal appears to the Board to be in the
public interest;

(_b_) amend, for a specified term or otherwise, any condition of a licence

(i) on the application of the licensee,

(ii) to deal with a water shortage in any water management area, or

(iii) in any other case, where the amendment appears to the Board to be in the
public interest; and

(_c_) cancel a licence

(i) on the application of the licensee,

(ii) where the licensee, for three successive years, fails to exercise the
licensee’s rights under the licence, or

(iii) in any other case, where the cancellation appears to the Board to be in
the public interest.

###### Application of certain provisions

###### Idem

###### Assignment of licences

**19.** (1) Any sale or other disposition of any right, title or interest of a licensee in an appurtenant undertaking constitutes, without further action by the licensee, an assignment of the licence to the person or persons to whom the sale or other disposition is made if the assignment of the licence was authorized by the Board.

###### Authorization of assignment of licence

(_a_) the sale or other disposition of any right, title or interest of the
licensee in the appurtenant undertaking at the time, in the manner and on the
terms and conditions agreed to by the licensee, and

(_b_) the operation of the appurtenant undertaking by the prospective assignee

###### Licence not otherwise assignable

###### Recommendations to Minister

**20.** The Board may, and at the request of the Minister shall, make such recommendations to the Minister as it considers appropriate concerning any matter in respect of which the Governor in Council is authorized by section 33 or 34 to make regulations or orders.

## PUBLIC HEARINGS AND PROCEDURE

###### Optional hearing

**21.** (1) The Board may, where satisfied that it would be in the public interest, hold a public hearing in connection with any matter relating to its objects, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing,

(_a_) the issuance or renewal of, or an amendment to, a type B licence;

(_b_) an amendment to a type A licence pursuant to which neither the use, flow
or quality of waters nor the term of the licence would be altered; and

(_c_) the cancellation of a type B licence pursuant to subparagraph
18(1)(_c_)(i).

###### Mandatory hearing

(_a_) the issuance or renewal of a type A licence;

(_b_) an amendment to a type A licence pursuant to which the use, flow or
quality of waters, or the term of the licence, would be altered;

(_c_) the cancellation of a type A licence pursuant to paragraph 18(1)(_c_);

(_d_) the cancellation of a type B licence pursuant to subparagraph
18(1)(_c_)(ii) or (iii); or

(_e_) an application pursuant to section 31 for permission to enter on, use,
occupy, take and acquire any lands or any interest therein.

###### Cases where subsection (2) does not apply

(_a_) where

(i) the applicant or the licensee, as the case may be, consents in writing to
the disposition of the matter without a public hearing, and

(ii) after giving notice of a public hearing in connection with the matter
pursuant to section 23, the Board receives no notification on or before the
tenth day prior to the day of the proposed hearing that any person or body
intends to appear and make representations in connection with the matter;

(_b_) where, in the case of a renewal referred to in paragraph (2)(_a_), the
licensee has filed with the Board an application for renewal in accordance
with the regulations made under paragraphs 33(1)(_d_) and (_e_) and the term
of the renewal or renewals granted by the Board does not exceed sixty days in
the aggregate; or

(_c_) where, in the case of an amendment to a type A licence pursuant to which
the use, flow or quality of waters would be altered, the Board, with the
consent of the Minister, declares the amendment to be required on an emergency
basis.

###### Place of hearing

###### Public hearings relating to Northern Pipeline

(_a_) commence the hearing within six months after the day on which the
application was made to the Board;

(_b_) complete the hearing within sixty days after its commencement; and

(_c_) render a decision within forty-five days after the completion of the
hearing.

###### Minister may act where Board fails to comply

###### Minister’s action valid

###### Provisions cease to be in force

  * 1992, c. 40, s. 21;
  * 2002, c. 10, s. 198(F).

###### Powers of the Board

**22.** The Board has, in respect of any public hearing under section 21, all the powers of a commissioner appointed under Part I of the [Inquiries Act](/eng/acts/I-11).

###### Notice of applications

**23.** (1) Subject to subsection (4), the Board shall give notice of each application made to it

(_a_) by publishing the application in a newspaper of general circulation in
the area affected or, if there is not such a newspaper, in such other manner
as the Board considers appropriate; and

(_b_) where an application is made in respect of a matter mentioned in any of
paragraphs 21(2)(_a_) to (_e_), by publishing the application in the [Canada
Gazette](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/).

###### Notice of public hearing

(_a_) by publishing a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the area
affected or, if there is not such a newspaper, in such other manner as the
Board considers appropriate, and

(_b_) by publishing a notice in the [Canada
Gazette](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/),

###### Where public hearing not held

###### Where subsections (1) to (3) do not apply

###### Rules

**24.** The Board may make rules respecting

(_a_) its sittings;

(_b_) with the approval of the Minister, its quorum;

(_c_) the procedure for making representations and complaints to it, the
conduct of hearings before it, and generally the manner of conducting any
business before it; and

(_d_) generally, the carrying on of its work, the management of its internal
affairs, and the duties of the officers and employees and the professional and
technical advisers provided to it by the Minister.

## PUBLIC REGISTER

###### Public register

**25.** (1) The Board shall maintain at its main office a register, in the form prescribed by the regulations made under paragraph 33(1)(_s_) and convenient for use by the public, in which shall be entered, with respect to each application received by the Board and with respect to each licence, such information as is prescribed by those regulations.

###### Register to be open to inspection

###### Copies of contents of register

## DECISIONS AND ORDERS

###### Where Board is to issue reasons

**26.** The Board shall issue, and make available to the public, written reasons for its decisions or orders relating to any licence or any application.

###### Decisions and orders final

**27.** Except as provided in this Act, every decision or order of the Board is final and conclusive.

###### Appeal to Federal Court

**28.** (1) An appeal lies from a decision or order of the Board to the Federal Court on a question of law, or a question of jurisdiction, on leave therefor being obtained from that Court on application made within forty-five days after the making of that decision or order or within such further time as that Court, or a judge thereof, under special circumstances allows.

###### Entry of appeal

## RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF LICENSEES AND OTHERS

###### Precedence

**29.** (1) Where two licensees have licences permitting the use of waters, the licensee who first filed an application with the Board in accordance with the regulations made under paragraphs 33(1)(_d_) and (_e_) is entitled to the use of waters in accordance with that licensee’s licence in precedence to any use of the waters by the other licensee.

###### Amendments to licence

###### Renewal or assignment of licence

###### Right to sue for compensation

**30.** (1) Except as otherwise provided by a compensation agreement referred to in subparagraph 14(4)(_a_)(ii), a person who is adversely affected as a result of

is entitled to be compensated by the licensee, authorized user or authorized
waste depositor in respect of that adverse effect, and may sue for and recover
any such compensation in any court of competent jurisdiction.

(_a_) the issuance of a licence, or

(_b_) a use of water or deposit of waste authorized by regulations made under
paragraph 33(1)(_m_) or (_n_)

###### Rights protected

###### Expropriation

**31.** (1) An applicant for a licence, or a licensee, may apply to the Board for permission from the Minister to expropriate, in accordance with the [Expropriation Act](/eng/acts/E-21), land or an interest in land in the Yukon, and where the Minister, on the recommendation of the Board, is satisfied that

the Minister may, in writing, grant the permission.

(_a_) the lands or interest are reasonably required by the applicant or
licensee for use in relation to the appurtenant undertaking, and

(_b_) the applicant or licensee has made reasonable efforts to acquire the
lands or interest and has been unable to do so and it is in the public
interest that such permission be granted to the applicant or licensee,

###### Notice to appropriate minister

###### [Expropriation Act](/eng/acts/E-21)

###### Charges for services

###### Debt due to Her Majesty

###### Security

###### Mitigation of damages — enforcement of undertaking

(_a_) to abandon or grant, to the owner of the lands or a person interested in
the lands, any portion of its lands or of the land being taken or any
easement, servitude or privilege over or in respect of the lands, and

(_b_) to construct and maintain any work for the benefit of the owner or
interested person,

###### Copy of document evidencing permission to be deposited

###### Duties of registrars of titles

###### Approval of Governor in Council to expropriate

###### Notice of intention

(_a_) a public hearing in respect of the location and extent of the land to be
affected shall be held in accordance with the following procedure:

(i) notice of the time and place for the public hearing shall be given to the
Yukon first nation or Gwich’in Tribal Council and the public,

(ii) at the time and place fixed for the public hearing, an opportunity shall
be provided for the Yukon first nation or Gwich’in Tribal Council and the
public to be heard,

(iii) costs incurred by any party in relation to the hearing are in the
discretion of the person or body holding the hearing and may be awarded on or
before the final disposition of the issue, and

(iv) a report on the hearing shall be prepared and submitted to the Minister;
and

(_b_) notice of intention to obtain the approval of the Governor in Council
shall be given to the Yukon first nation or Gwich’in Tribal Council on
completion of the public hearing and submission of a report thereon to the
Minister.

###### Definition of “Tetlit Gwich’in Yukon land”

###### Exceptions

(_a_) territorial lands; or

(_b_) lands belonging to any railway company that are used or required by the
company for the purposes of its railway.

  * 1992, c. 40, s. 31;
  * 1994, c. 43, s. 102;
  * 1996, c. 10, s. 274;
  * 2002, c. 10, s. 199.

###### Rights of persons not affected

**32.** Nothing in this Act or the regulations or in a licence constitutes a defence to a claim for loss or damage sustained by any person by reason of the construction or operation of any work forming part of an appurtenant undertaking.

## REGULATIONS AND ORDERS

###### Regulations

**33.** (1) The Governor in Council may make regulations

(_a_) on the recommendation of the Minister and the Board,

(i) establishing water management areas consisting of river basins or other
geographical areas, and

(ii) classifying purposes of use of waters in any water management area;

(_b_) prescribing

for the purposes of paragraphs (_d_) to (_f_) of the definition “waste” in
section 2;

(i) substances and classes of substances,

(ii) quantities or concentrations of substances and classes of substances in
water, and

(iii) treatments, processes and changes of water

(_c_) setting out the criteria to be applied by the Board in determining
whether a proposed use of waters or deposit of waste for which a licence is
required under this Act requires a type A licence or a type B licence;

(_d_) setting out the procedure to be followed on an application to the Board;

(_e_) prescribing the form of applications to the Board, the information to be
submitted to the Board in connection with any application, and the form in
which any of that information is to be submitted;

(_f_) prescribing forms, in addition to any forms prescribed under paragraph
(_e_);

(_g_) respecting the amount of security that may be required to be furnished
and maintained under subsection 17(1), and prescribing the form and the terms
and conditions of the security, which regulations may empower the Board to fix
the amount of the security subject to a maximum specified in, or determined in
accordance with, those regulations;

(_h_) prescribing water quality standards for any waters;

(_i_) prescribing effluent standards in relation to any waters;

(_j_) prescribing standards for the design, construction, operation and
maintenance of works related to the use of waters or the deposit of waste;

(_k_) prescribing fees to be paid

(i) for the right to use waters or deposit waste pursuant to a licence,

(ii) for the filing of any application with the Board, and

(iii) for inspection of the register maintained pursuant to section 25;

(_l_) prescribing the times at which and the manner in which fees prescribed
under paragraph (_k_) shall be paid;

(_m_) subject to any order made under subsection 34(2), authorizing the use
without a licence of waters in a water management area for a purpose or use,
in a quantity or at a rate, or for a period, or any combination of purpose,
use, quantity, rate or period, specified in the regulations, and prescribing
the conditions under which those waters may be used without a licence;

(_n_) subject to any order made under subsection 34(2), prescribing
quantities, concentrations and types of waste that may be deposited without a
licence, and the conditions under which any such waste may be deposited;

(_o_) prescribing the manner in which a report under subsection 9(3) is to be
made and the information to be contained therein;

(_p_) requiring persons who use waters or deposit waste in a water management
area

(i) to maintain books and records for the proper enforcement of this Act, and

(ii) to submit to the Board, on a regular monthly, quarterly, semi-annual or
annual basis, reports on any of their operations to which this Act applies,
and specifying the information to be contained therein;

(_q_) requiring persons who deposit waste in a water management area

(i) to submit representative samples of the waste to the Board for analysis,
or

(ii) to analyse representative samples of the waste and submit the results of
the analysis to the Board;

(_r_) respecting the taking of representative samples of waters or waste and
respecting the method of analysis of those samples;

(_s_) prescribing the form of the register to be maintained by the Board
pursuant to section 25 and the information to be entered therein;

(_t_) respecting the duties of persons designated as analysts pursuant to
section 35; and

(_u_) generally, for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act.

###### Regulations may vary

###### Reservation of lands from disposition

**34.** (1) The Governor in Council may, by order, reserve from disposition under any enactment relating to the disposition of territorial lands, for a specified period or otherwise, all or any interests in any territorial lands under the management, charge and direction of the Minister where the interests are, in the opinion of the Governor in Council, required

(_a_) for the protection of any waters; or

(_b_) in connection with any undertaking the development or operation of which
is, in the opinion of the Governor in Council, in the public interest and that
would require the use of those interests in lands and of waters adjacent to
those lands.

###### Reservation of water rights

(_a_) to enable comprehensive evaluation and planning to be carried out with
respect to those waters, or

(_b_) where the use and flow of those waters, or the maintenance of the
quality of those waters, is required in connection with a particular
undertaking the development of which is, in the opinion of the Governor in
Council, in the public interest,

###### Effect of contravention of order

## ENFORCEMENT

###### Inspectors and analysts

**35.** (1) The Minister may designate any qualified person as an inspector or analyst for the purposes of this Act.

###### Certificate to be produced

###### Powers of inspectors

**36.** (1) For the purpose of ensuring compliance with this Act, the regulations or a licence, an inspector may, at any reasonable time,

(_a_) enter, subject to subsection (3), any area, place or premises in a water
management area in which the inspector believes, on reasonable grounds, is
being carried out

(i) the construction of any work that, on completion, will form part of an
undertaking the operation of which will require the use of waters or the
deposit of waste, or

(ii) the alteration or extension of a work that forms part of such an
undertaking;

(_b_) conduct such inspections of a work described in paragraph (_a_) as the
inspector deems necessary in order to determine

(i) whether any plans and specifications forming part of any application for a
licence filed with the Board by the person constructing the work are being
complied with, or

(ii) whether any alteration or extension of the work will or is likely to
result in a contravention of any condition of a licence issued in association
with an undertaking of which the work forms part; and

(_c_) enter, subject to subsection (3), any area, place or premises in which
the inspector believes, on reasonable grounds, that

and examine any works related to the matters mentioned in subparagraphs (i)
and (ii) and any waters or waste, open any container that the inspector
believes on reasonable grounds contains any waters or waste, and take samples
of any waters or waste.

(i) waters are being used, or

(ii) there is being or has been carried out any process that may result in or
has resulted in waste, or there is any waste, that may be added to waters,

###### Books, records or documents

(_a_) the use of waters, or

(_b_) any process that is being or has been carried out therein that involves
the use of waters or results or is likely to result in waste,

###### Exception where dwelling-place

###### Assistance to inspectors

###### Remedial measures

**37.** (1) Where an inspector, whether or not a report has been made under subsection 9(3), believes, on reasonable grounds,

the inspector may direct any person to take such reasonable measures as the
inspector may specify, including the cessation of an activity, to prevent the
use, deposit or failure from occurring or to counteract, mitigate or remedy
the adverse effects.

(_a_) that

(i) waters have been or may be used in contravention of subsection 8(1) or of
a condition of a licence,

(ii) waste has been or may be deposited in contravention of subsection 9(1) or
of a condition of a licence, or

(iii) there has been, or may be, a failure of a work related to the use of
waters or the deposit of waste, whether or not there has been compliance with
any standards prescribed by regulations made under paragraph 33(1)(_j_) and
with any standards imposed by a licence, and

(_b_) that a danger to persons, property or the environment results, or may
reasonably be expected to result, from the adverse effects of that use,
deposit or failure,

###### Review by Minister

(_a_) shall, if so requested by the person, forthwith review the direction;
and

(_b_) may, after completion of the review referred to in paragraph (_a_), or
on the Minister’s own initiative, alter or revoke the direction.

###### Inspector may take measures

###### Recovery of Her Majesty’s costs

(_a_) because of the non-existence or inadequacy of that security,

(_b_) because all or a portion of that security has been applied pursuant to
paragraph 17(2)(_a_),

(_c_) because all or a portion of that security has been refunded pursuant to
subsection 17(5), or

(_d_) for any other reason

###### Obstruction

**38.** (1) No person shall wilfully obstruct or otherwise interfere with an inspector in the carrying out of the inspector’s functions under this Act.

###### False statements

###### Where work closed or abandoned

**39.** (1) Where the Minister believes, on reasonable grounds, that

the Minister may take any reasonable measures to prevent, counteract, mitigate
or remedy any resulting adverse effect on persons, property or the
environment, and for that purpose may enter any area, place or premises,
except one that is designed to be used and is being used as a permanent or
temporary private dwelling-place.

(_a_) a person has closed or abandoned, temporarily or permanently, a work
related to the use of waters or the deposit of waste, and

(_b_) either

(i) the person has contravened or failed to comply with any condition of a
licence or any provision of this Act or the regulations, whether or not the
condition or provision relates to closing or abandonment, or

(ii) a danger to persons, property or the environment may result from the past
operation of the work or from its closing or abandonment,

###### Recovery of Her Majesty’s costs

(_a_) because of the non-existence or inadequacy of that security,

(_b_) because all or a portion of that security has been applied pursuant to
paragraph 17(2)(_a_),

(_c_) because all or a portion of that security has been refunded pursuant to
subsection 17(5), or

(_d_) for any other reason

## OFFENCES AND PUNISHMENT

###### Principal offences

**40.** (1) Any person who

is guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding one hundred thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding one year, or to both.

(_a_) contravenes subsection 8(1) or section 9,

(_b_) fails to comply with subsection 8(3), or

(_c_) contravenes or fails to comply with a direction given by an inspector
under subsection 37(1)

###### Type A licensees

(_a_) contravenes or fails to comply with any condition of the licence, where
the contravention or failure to comply does not constitute an offence under
section 41, or

(_b_) without reasonable excuse, fails to furnish or maintain security as
required under subsection 17(1)

###### Type B licensees

(_a_) contravenes or fails to comply with any condition of the licence, where
the contravention or failure to comply does not constitute an offence under
section 41, or

(_b_) without reasonable excuse, fails to furnish or maintain security as
required under subsection 17(1)

###### Continuing offences

###### Other offences

**41.** Any person who

(_a_) contravenes or fails to comply with subsection 36(4), section 38 or any
regulations made under paragraph 33(1)(_p_), (_q_) or (_r_), or

(_b_) except as authorized pursuant to this Act or any other Act of
Parliament, wilfully obstructs or otherwise interferes with a licensee or any
person acting on behalf of a licensee in the exercise of any rights granted to
the licensee under this Act

is guilty of an offence punishable on summary conviction.

###### Limitation period

**42.** Proceedings in respect of an offence under this Act may be instituted at any time within but not later than two years after the time when the subject-matter of the proceedings arose.

###### Action to enjoin not prejudiced by prosecution

**43.** (1) Notwithstanding that a prosecution has been instituted in respect of an offence under section 40, the Attorney General of Canada may commence and maintain proceedings to enjoin conduct that constitutes an offence thereunder.

###### Civil remedy not affected

###### Certificate of analyst

**44.** (1) Subject to this section, a certificate purporting to be signed by an analyst and stating that the analyst has analysed or examined a sample submitted to the analyst by an inspector and stating the result of the analysis or examination is admissible in evidence in any prosecution under this Act and, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, is proof of the statements contained in the certificate, without proof of the signature or official character of the person appearing to have signed the certificate.

###### Attendance of analyst

###### Notice

## TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

###### Members of Board

**45.** Persons who, pursuant to the Northern Inland Waters Act, were members of the Yukon Territory Water Board immediately before the coming into force of this Act continue as such thereafter as if they had been appointed pursuant to this Act.

###### Licences

**46.** (1) Licences relating to the Yukon Territory that were in force under the Northern Inland Waters Act immediately before the coming into force of this Act continue in force thereafter as if they had been issued in accordance with this Act.

###### Idem

###### Idem

(_a_) until the ninetieth day after the coming into force of this Act; or

(_b_) if, on or before the day referred to in paragraph (_a_), the licensee
has applied to the Board to amend the licence in relation to that condition,
until the day on which that application is finally disposed of by that Board.

###### Authorized users and authorized waste depositors

**47.** Where, immediately before the coming into force of this Act, a person was using waters or depositing waste under the authority of regulations made under paragraph 29(_f_) or (_g_) of the Northern Inland Waters Act in such a way that, after the coming into force of this Act, that use or deposit would constitute a contravention of subsection 8(1) or 9(1) of this Act if the person were not a licensee, the person may, notwithstanding those subsections, continue to use waters or deposit waste in a substantially equivalent way

(_a_) until the ninetieth day after the coming into force of this Act; or

(_b_) if, on or before the day referred to in paragraph (_a_), the person has
applied to the Board for a licence to continue that use or deposit, until the
day on which that application is finally disposed of by the Board.

###### Applications to have priority

**48.** The Board shall deal with applications referred to in paragraphs 46(3)(_b_) and 47(_b_) in priority to all other applications received by it.

## CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS

## Arctic Waters Pollution Prevention Act

**49.** [Amendment]

## Northern Canada Power Commission Yukon Assets Disposal Authorization Act

**50.** [Amendments]

## Other References to Northern Inland Waters Act

###### Other references to Northern Inland Waters Act

**51.** A reference to the Northern Inland Waters Act in any Act, regulation, document, instrument, proclamation or order in council shall be deemed, unless the context otherwise requires, to be a reference to

(_a_) this Act,

(_b_) the [Northwest Territories Waters Act](/eng/acts/N-27.3),

(_c_) this Act and the [Northwest Territories Waters Act](/eng/acts/N-27.3),
or

(_d_) this Act or the [Northwest Territories Waters Act](/eng/acts/N-27.3),

whichever is appropriate.

## REPEAL

**52.** [Repeal]

## COMING INTO FORCE

###### Coming into force

***53.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), this Act shall come into force on a day to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

###### Restriction

*[Note: Act in force June 15, 1993, _see_ SI/93-88.]
  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada

