# Public Sector Compensation Act

S.C. 1991, c. 30

Assented to 1991-10-02

An Act respecting compensation in the public sector of Canada and to amend
another Act in relation thereto

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of
Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

## SHORT TITLE

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Public Sector Compensation Act](/eng/acts/P-31.6).

## INTERPRETATION

###### Definitions

**2.** (1) In this Act,

(_a_) in the case of employees in respect of whom Part I of the [Canada Labour
Code](/eng/acts/L-2) applies, as in subsection 3(1) of that Act,

(_b_) in the case of employees in respect of whom the [Parliamentary
Employment and Staff Relations Act](/eng/acts/P-1.3) applies, as in section 3
of that Act, and

(_c_) in the case of employees in respect of whom the [Public Service Staff
Relations Act](/eng/acts/P-35) applies, as in section 2 of that Act;

(_a_) under the [Supplementary Retirement Benefits Act](/eng/acts/S-24) or any
Act of Parliament or regulations mentioned in Schedule I to that Act,

(_a.1_) under the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/eng/acts/P-36), the
[Canadian Forces Superannuation Act](/eng/acts/C-17), the [Royal Canadian
Mounted Police Superannuation Act](/eng/acts/R-11) or the [Special Retirement
Arrangements Act](/eng/acts/S-15.2),

(_b_) pursuant to a directive, policy, regulation or agreement that is issued,
made or amended from time to time

(i) on the recommendation of the National Joint Council of the Public Service
and with the approval of the Treasury Board, or

(ii) unilaterally by the employer of the employee or bilaterally by the
employer and the employee, as represented by the bargaining agent, and that is
in respect of a subject-matter that, in the opinion of the Treasury Board, is
the same as or related to the subject-matter of a directive, policy,
regulation or agreement that is issued, made or amended as described in
subparagraph (i),

(_b.1_) pursuant to the Work Force Adjustment Directive issued on the
recommendation of the National Joint Council of the Public Service and with
the approval of the Treasury Board, that came into force on December 15, 1991,
as amended from time to time on the recommendation of the Council and with the
approval of the Treasury Board or in accordance with this Act or section 11 of
the [Financial Administration Act](/eng/acts/F-11), in respect of any subject-
matter, but only in the circumstances arising from a transfer referred to in
paragraph 11(2)(_g.1_) of that Act,

(_c_) in one lump sum payment that may be made payable, on or after the coming
into force of this Act, to or for the benefit of an employee whose rate of pay
does not exceed $27,500 and that is in an amount equal to

(i) where the lump sum is payable to or for the benefit of an employee whose
rate of pay does not exceed $27,000, $500, or

(ii) where the lump sum is payable to or for the benefit of an employee whose
rate of pay exceeds $27,000 but does not exceed $27,500, that portion of $500
that the rate of pay for that employee exceeds $27,000, or

(_d_) in respect of severance pay or accumulated vacation or annual leave in
the circumstances arising from a transfer referred to in paragraph
11(2)(_g.1_) of the [Financial Administration Act](/eng/acts/F-11);

(_a_) in the case of employees in respect of whom Part I of the [Canada Labour
Code](/eng/acts/L-2) applies, as in subsection 3(1) of that Act,

(_b_) in the case of employees in respect of whom the [Parliamentary
Employment and Staff Relations Act](/eng/acts/P-1.3) applies, as in section 3
of that Act, and

(_c_) in the case of employees in respect of whom the [Public Service Staff
Relations Act](/eng/acts/P-35) applies, as in section 2 of that Act;

###### Expiration of compensation plans

  * 1991, c. 30, s. 2;
  * 1993, c. 13, s. 2;
  * 1994, c. 18, s. 2;
  * 1996, c. 18, s. 12.

## APPLICATION

###### Application

**3.** (1) This Act applies to employees employed in or by

(_a_) the departments of the Government of Canada or other portions of the
public service of Canada, set out in Schedule I;

(_b_) the agencies, boards, commissions or corporations set out in Schedule
II; and

(_c_) the Senate, House of Commons or Library of Parliament.

###### Idem

(_a_) the staff of ministers of the Crown and of members of the Senate and the
House of Commons,

(_b_) directors of corporations set out in Schedule II,

(_c_) the members and officers of the Canadian Forces, and

(_d_) the members and officers of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police,

###### Idem

###### Idem

(_a_) the Chief Electoral Officer;

(_b_) the Commissioner of Official Languages for Canada; and

(_c_) the Governor and Deputy Governor of the Bank of Canada.

###### Exclusion

  * 1991, c. 30, s. 3;
  * 1993, c. 13, s. 3.

## BINDING ON HER MAJESTY

###### Binding on Her Majesty

**4.** This Act is binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada.

## EXTENSION OF COMPENSATION PLANS

###### Extension of compensation plans

**5.** (1) Subject to section 11, every compensation plan for employees to whom this Act applies that was in effect on February 26, 1991, including every compensation plan extended under section 6, shall be extended for a period of seventy-two months beginning on the day immediately following the day on which the compensation plan would, but for this section, expire.

###### No increase in compensation

###### Period not included as experience

###### Where prior undertaking to implement compensation plan

###### Particular case

  * 1991, c. 30, s. 5;
  * 1993, c. 13, s. 4;
  * 1994, c. 18, s. 3.

###### Extension of compensation plan that has already expired

**6.** Subject to section 11, where a compensation plan for employees to whom this Act applies would, but for this section, have expired before February 26, 1991 and no new compensation plan was established before February 26, 1991, or on or after that date in accordance with subsection 5(2), the compensation plan shall be extended for a period of twelve months beginning on the day immediately following the day on which the plan would have expired.

###### Terms and conditions

**7.** (1) Notwithstanding any other Act of Parliament except the [Canadian Human Rights Act](/eng/acts/H-6) but subject to this Act, the terms and conditions of

shall continue in force without change for the period for which the
compensation plan is so extended.

(_a_) every compensation plan that is extended under section 5 or 6, and

(_b_) every collective agreement or arbitral award that includes a
compensation plan referred to in paragraph (_a_)

###### Exception where conversion or reclassification

###### Extension where conversion or reclassification of a plan

(_a_) extended for a period of forty-eight months beginning on the day
immediately following the day on which the compensation plan would, but for
this subsection, expire; and

(_b_) deemed to include a provision to the effect that the wage rates in
effect under the plan on the day on which the plan would, but for this
subsection, expire shall not be increased for the forty-eight month period
immediately following that day.

###### Idem

(_a_) extended for a period of twenty-four months beginning on the day
immediately following the day on which the compensation plan would, but for
this subsection, expire; and

(_b_) deemed to include a provision to the effect that the wage rates in
effect under the plan on the day on which the plan would, but for this
subsection, expire shall not be increased for the twenty-four month period
immediately following that day.

###### Authorized changes

(_a_) of a compensation plan that would, but for section 6, have expired
before February 26, 1991; or

(_b_) of a collective agreement or arbitral award that includes a compensation
plan referred to in paragraph (_a_).

###### Where parties fail to agree

(_a_) of a compensation plan that would, but for section 6, have expired
before February 26, 1991, or

(_b_) of a collective agreement or arbitral award that includes a compensation
plan referred to in paragraph (_a_)

###### Wage increases governed by section 10

###### Work sharing agreement

  * 1991, c. 30, s. 7;
  * 1993, c. 13, s. 5;
  * 1994, c. 18, s. 4.

###### Civilian Reduction Program

**7.1** (1) Notwithstanding this Act or any other Act of Parliament except the [Canadian Human Rights Act](/eng/acts/H-6), the Treasury Board may

(_a_) fix the terms and conditions of the Civilian Reduction Program arising
from the February 22, 1994 budget; and

(_b_) offer or give, to or on behalf of indeterminate employees of the
Department of National Defence, Emergency Preparedness Canada and the
Communications Security Establishment who are subject to that Program,
payments under the Program.

###### Merger with new program

(_a_) a payment under the Civilian Reduction Program shall not be offered or
given pursuant to subsection (1) to or on behalf of an indeterminate employee
of the Department of National Defence or Emergency Preparedness Canada unless
that employee is a surplus employee within the meaning of the Work Force
Adjustment Directive; and

(_b_) any employee referred to in paragraph (_a_) who has been offered a
payment pursuant to subsection (1), whether before or after that date, but has
not yet ceased to be an employee within the meaning of the [Public Service
Employment Act](/eng/acts/P-33.01) becomes subject to the program and section
7.2 applies to that employee, except that the payment is given in an amount
and subject to any other terms and conditions respecting the payment fixed for
the Civilian Reduction Program pursuant to subsection (1) and no other payment
may be offered or given to that employee pursuant to section 7.2.

*[Note: Subsection 7.1(2), as enacted by 1995, c. 17, s. 2, ceases to be in force June 22, 1998, _see_ 1995, c. 17, s. 6.]

###### Definitions

“program”

« programme »

    

“program” means a program respecting early departure incentives, unpaid
surplus status, lay offs and related matters arising from the February 27,
1995 budget;

“public service”

« administration publique »

    

“public service” means the entities referred to in subsection 3(1);

“Work Force Adjustment Directive”

« Directive sur le réaménagement des effectifs »

    

“Work Force Adjustment Directive” means the Work Force Adjustment Directive
issued on the recommendation of the National Joint Council of the Public
Service and with the approval of the Treasury Board, that came into force on
December 15, 1991, as amended from time to time in accordance with subsections
7.3(2) and (3).

*[Note: Subsection 7.1(3), as enacted by 1995, c. 17, s. 2, ceases to be in force June 22, 1998, _see_ 1995, c. 17, s. 6.]

  * 1994, c. 18, s. 5;
  * 1995, c. 17, s. 2.

###### Early departure incentive

***7.2** (1) Notwithstanding this Act or any other Act of Parliament except the [Canadian Human Rights Act](/eng/acts/H-6), or any directive, policy, regulation or agreement made under any such Act,

(_a_) the Governor in Council, on the recommendation of the Treasury Board,
may fix the terms and conditions of a program arising from the February 27,
1995 budget and designate any department or portion of the public service or
any part of that department or portion of the public service to which that
program is to apply; and

(_b_) the Treasury Board may offer or give, to or on behalf of an employee of
the department or portion of the public service designated pursuant to
paragraph (_a_) who is a surplus employee within the meaning of the Work Force
Adjustment Directive or otherwise subject to the program, a payment under the
program and, subject to the terms and conditions fixed pursuant to paragraph
(_a_),

(i) may, no earlier than six months after the date on which the offer is
received by the employee, place the employee on unpaid surplus status within
the meaning of the program, and

(ii) shall lay off the employee where a reasonable job offer within the
meaning of the Work Force Adjustment Directive was not made within twelve
months after the commencement of the unpaid surplus status or the employee
refuses the reasonable job offer.

###### Effect of being laid off

###### Authorization of deputy head to exercise powers and perform duties of
Board

*[Note: Section 7.2, as enacted by 1995, c. 17, s. 3, ceases to be in force June 22, 1998, _see_ 1995, c. 17, s. 6.]

  * 1995, c. 17, s. 3.

###### Work Force Adjustment Directive not subject to collective bargaining

***7.3** (1) Notwithstanding this Act or any other Act of Parliament except the [Canadian Human Rights Act](/eng/acts/H-6), or any directive, policy, regulation or agreement made under any such Act, the Work Force Adjustment Directive, any term or condition of employment relating to job security or work force adjustment or any matter in relation to which the Directive may be issued or amended, whether or not the Directive is included in a collective agreement or arbitral award that has ceased, or may cease, to operate, shall not be the subject of collective bargaining, or be embodied in a collective agreement or arbitral award within the meaning of the [Public Service Staff Relations Act](/eng/acts/P-35), in respect of any portion of the public service of Canada specified in Part I of Schedule I of that Act, during the period of three years beginning on the coming into force of this section.

###### Amendments by mutual agreement

###### Amendments to Work Force Adjustment Directive by Governor in Council

(_a_) the suspension of the separation benefit;

(_b_) geographical limitations with respect to guaranteed offers of
appointment made as a result of privatization and contracting out situations
within the meaning of the Directive; and

(_c_) proceeding with a contract in a contracting out situation within the
meaning of the Directive.

###### Expiration

###### Amendments to Work Force Adjustment Directive incorporated by reference

*[Note: Section 7.3, as enacted by 1995, c. 17, s. 3, ceases to be in force June 22, 1998, _see_ 1995, c. 17, s. 6.]

  * 1995, c. 17, s. 3.

###### Changes to compensation plan re voluntary leave

***7.4** (1) The Governor in Council may change any terms and conditions of a compensation plan that is extended under section 5 or 6 or in respect of which section 11 applies if those terms and conditions are, in the opinion of the Treasury Board, required to implement the voluntary leave without pay programs arising from the February 27, 1995 budget.

###### Expiration

*[Note: Section 7.4, as enacted by 1995, c. 17, s. 3, ceases to be in force June 22, 1998, _see_ 1995, c. 17, s. 6.]

  * 1995, c. 17, s. 3.

###### Amendment to collective agreements and arbitral awards

***8.** (1) Subject to subsection (3), the parties to any collective agreement or arbitral award that includes a compensation plan that is extended under section 5 or 6 or in respect of which section 11 applies may, by agreement in writing, amend any terms and conditions of the collective agreement or arbitral award otherwise than by increasing

(_a_) wage rates; or

(_b_) any form of compensation referred to in subsection 5(1.1).

###### Unilateral and other amendments to compensation plan

###### Restriction of cost

###### Determination

(_a_) by the Governor in Council, on the recommendation of the Treasury Board,
where the plan relates to employees employed in or by the entities referred to
in paragraph 3(1)(_a_) or (_b_), the staff of ministers of the Crown or
persons referred to in paragraphs 3(2)(_b_), (_c_) and (_d_) and subsection
3(3); or

(_b_) by the appropriate employer, where the plan relates to

(i) the entities referred to in paragraph 3(1)(_c_),

(ii) the staff of the members of the Senate and the House of Commons,

(iii) the Chief Electoral Officer,

(iv) the Commissioner of Official Languages for Canada, or

(v) the Governor and Deputy Governor of the Bank of Canada.

*[Note: Section 8, as enacted by 1995, c. 17, s. 4, ceases to be in force June 22, 1998, _see_ 1995, c. 17, s. 6.]

  * 1991, c. 30, s. 8;
  * 1993, c. 13, s. 6;
  * 1995, c. 17, s. 4.

###### Performance pay

**8.1** Notwithstanding section 8, the Treasury Board may, on or after July 1, 1996, amend the terms and conditions relating to merit or performance increases, in-range increases or performance bonuses of a compensation plan that is extended under section 5 or 6 or in respect of which section 11 applies.

  * 1996, c. 18, s. 13.

###### Members of the Canadian Forces

**8.2** Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, on or after April 1, 1996, the wage rates in effect under the compensation plan in respect of non-commissioned members of the Canadian Forces may be increased by an amount not exceeding 2.2 per cent in the manner in which the plan was established.

  * 1996, c. 18, s. 13.

## WAGE RATES

###### No increase in wage rates

**9.** (1) Notwithstanding any other Act of Parliament but subject to section 11, every compensation plan for employees to whom this Act applies shall be deemed to include a provision to the effect that the wage rates in effect under the plan on the day on which the plan would, but for section 5, expire shall not be increased for the twelve month period immediately following that day.

###### Increase in wage rates

###### No increase in wage rates

###### Idem

  * 1991, c. 30, s. 9;
  * 1993, c. 13, s. 7;
  * 1994, c. 18, s. 6.

###### Retroactive increase in wage rates

**10.** A compensation plan that is extended under section 6 shall be deemed to include a provision to the effect that the wage rates in effect under the plan on the day on which the plan would, but for section 6, have expired shall be increased, for the twelve month period referred to in that section,

(_a_) by such amounts as the Governor in Council, on the recommendation of the
Treasury Board, may authorize, in the case of a compensation plan contained in

(i) the collective agreement for the Translation Group entered into between
the Treasury Board and the Canadian Union of Professional and Technical
Employees that expired on April 18, 1990,

(ii) the collective agreement for the Computer Systems Administration Group
entered into between the Treasury Board and the Professional Institute of the
Public Service of Canada that expired on April 30, 1990, or

(iii) the collective agreement for the Auditing Group entered into between the
Treasury Board and the Professional Institute of the Public Service of Canada
that expired on May 4, 1990; and

(_b_) by 4.2 per cent, in any other case.

###### Exception

**11.** (1) Where a compensation plan for employees to whom this Act applies expired before or was in effect on February 26, 1991 and a new compensation plan to have effect on the expiration of the previous compensation plan is established during the period beginning on February 26, 1991 and ending

sections 5 and 6 do not apply in respect of the previous compensation plan and
the Governor in Council, on the recommendation of the Treasury Board, may
adjust wage rates under the new compensation plan to such amounts and for such
periods as the Governor in Council considers to be consistent with the wage
policy of the Government of Canada arising from the February 26, 1991 budget
or the December 2, 1992 economic and fiscal statement, and any wage rates so
adjusted shall be deemed to be embodied in the new compensation plan.

(_a_) on the day immediately before the day on which this Act comes into
force, or

(_b_) at any time on or after the day on which this Act comes into force,
where the process for resolution of a dispute respecting the compensation plan
is by the referral thereof to arbitration and a request for arbitration has
been made in accordance with the laws applicable to the compensation plan
before the day on which this Act comes into force,

###### Where prior undertaking to implement compensation plan

###### Extension

(_a_) extended for a period of forty-eight months beginning on the day
immediately following the day on which the compensation plan, collective
agreement or arbitral award would, but for this subsection, expire; and

(_b_) deemed to include provisions to the effect that

(i) the wage rates in effect under the plan on the day on which the plan
would, but for this subsection, expire shall not be increased for the forty-
eight month period immediately following that day, and

(ii) the terms and conditions of the plan, collective agreement or arbitral
award, other than wage rates, in effect on the day on which the plan,
collective agreement or arbitral award would, but for this subsection, expire,
shall continue in force without change for the forty-eight month period
immediately following that day.

  * 1991, c. 30, s. 11;
  * 1993, c. 13, s. 8;
  * 1994, c. 18, s. 7.

## ADMINISTRATION

###### Powers, duties and functions of Treasury Board

**12.** (1) The Treasury Board has such powers and shall perform such duties and functions in relation to this Act as are necessary to enable it to determine whether an employer of employees to whom this Act applies is complying with this Act.

###### Information and documentation

###### Treasury Board directive

###### Provision of compensation plans of no force or effect

**13.** A provision of a compensation plan for employees to whom this Act applies that is entered into or established at any time is of no force or effect to the extent that it provides for an increase in wage rates that would bring wage rates to a level that they would, but for this Act, have reached.

## OFFENCES

###### Prohibitions

**14.** (1) During the period beginning on the day on which this Act comes into force in which a compensation plan, as extended under section 5 or 6, or in respect of which section 11 applies, is in force,

(_a_) no bargaining agent shall declare, authorize or direct, or condone or
acquiesce in the continuation of, a strike of employees to whom the
compensation plan applies;

(_b_) no representative or officer of a bargaining agent shall counsel or
procure the declaration, authorization or direction of, or condone or
acquiesce in the continuation of, a strike of those employees; and

(_c_) no employee to whom the compensation plan applies shall participate in a
strike.

Definition of “condone or acquiesce”

(_a_) to fail to give notice to employees participating in the strike that
they are to resume the duties of their employment immediately;

(_b_) to fail to take reasonable steps to ensure that the employees resume the
duties of their employment immediately; and

(_c_) to do anything that may encourage the employees not to resume the duties
of their employment.

###### Offence — bargaining agent

**15.** Every bargaining agent that contravenes section 14 is guilty of an offence punishable on summary conviction and is liable, for each day or part of a day during which the offence continues, to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

###### Offence — representatives and officers

**16.** Every representative or officer of a bargaining agent that contravenes section 14 is guilty of an offence punishable on summary conviction and is liable, for each day or part of a day during which the offence continues, to a fine not exceeding $50,000.

###### Offence — employees

**17.** Every employee who contravenes section 14 is guilty of an offence punishable on summary conviction and is liable, for each day or part of a day during which the offence continues, to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

###### Deeming provision

**18.** For the purposes of enforcement proceedings under sections 14 to 17, a bargaining agent is deemed to be a person.

###### Imprisonment precluded

**19.** Notwithstanding subsection 787(2) of the [Criminal Code](/eng/acts/C-46), a term of imprisonment may not be imposed in default of payment of a fine that is imposed on a person as punishment in respect of an offence under sections 14 to 17.

###### Recovery of fines

**20.** (1) Any fine imposed on a bargaining agent or a representative or officer of a bargaining agent under section 15 or 16 constitutes a debt payable to Her Majesty in right of Canada and may, without prejudice to any other recourse available to Her Majesty with respect to the recovery thereof, be recovered by Her Majesty by a deduction of the amount of the fine or any portion thereof from the amount of the membership dues that the employer of the employees represented by the bargaining agent is or may be required, pursuant to any collective agreement that is or may be entered into between the employer and the bargaining agent, to deduct from the pay of the employees and to remit to the bargaining agent.

###### Amount of deduction to Consolidated Revenue Fund

## ORDERS

###### Orders

**21.** The Governor in Council may, on the recommendation of the Treasury Board, by order,

(_a_) amend Schedule I by adding thereto the name of any department or
ministry of state of the Government of Canada or any other portion of the
public service of Canada; or

(_b_) amend Schedule II by adding thereto the name of any agency, board or
commission or any Crown corporation within the meaning of Part X of the
[Financial Administration Act](/eng/acts/F-11).

###### Orders

**22.** The Governor in Council may, on the recommendation of the Treasury Board, by order, terminate the application of this Act in respect of any employee or group of employees to which this Act applies.

## RELATED AMENDMENTS

**23\. and 24.** [Amendments]

## COMING INTO FORCE

###### Coming into force

**25.** This Act shall come into force on the day immediately after the day on which this Act is assented to, but not before the twelfth hour after the time at which it is assented to.

## SCHEDULE I(Section 3 and paragraph 21(a))Departments

  * Department of Agriculture and Agri-Food

Ministère de l’Agriculture et de l’Agroalimentaire

  * Department of Canadian Heritage

Ministère du Patrimoine canadien

  * Department of Citizenship and Immigration

Ministère de la Citoyenneté et de l’Immigration

  * Department of the Environment

Ministère de l’Environnement

  * Department of Finance

Ministère des Finances

  * Department of Fisheries and Oceans

Ministère des Pêches et des Océans

  * Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade

Ministère des Affaires étrangères et du Commerce international

  * Department of Health

Ministère de la Santé

  * Department of Human Resources Development

Ministère du Développement des ressources humaines

  * Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development

Ministère des Affaires indiennes et du Nord canadien

  * Department of Industry

Ministère de l’Industrie

  * Department of Justice

Ministère de la Justice

  * Department of National Defence

Ministère de la Défense nationale

  * Department of National Revenue

Ministère du Revenu national

  * Department of Natural Resources

Ministère des Ressources naturelles

  * Department of Public Works and Government Services

Ministère des Travaux publics et des Services gouvernementaux

  * Department of the Solicitor General

Ministère du Solliciteur général

  * Department of Transport

Ministère des Transports

  * Department of Veterans Affairs

Ministère des Anciens Combattants

  * Department of Western Economic Diversification

Ministère de la Diversification de l’économie de l’Ouest

Other Portions of the Public Service

  * Agricultural Stabilization Board

Office de stabilisation des prix agricoles

  * Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency

Agence de promotion économique du Canada atlantique

  * Canada Communication Group

Groupe Communication Canada

  * Canada Industrial Relations Board

Conseil canadien des relations industrielles

  * Canadian Advisory Council on the Status of Women

Conseil consultatif canadien sur la situation de la femme

  * Canadian Centre for Management Development

Centre canadien de gestion

  * Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety

Centre canadien d’hygiène et de sécurité au travail

  * Canadian Environmental Advisory Council

Conseil consultatif canadien de l’environnement

  * Canadian Grain Commission

Commission canadienne des grains

  * Canadian Human Rights Commission

Commission canadienne des droits de la personne

  * Canadian Human Rights Tribunal

Tribunal canadien des droits de la personne

  * Canadian Intergovernmental Conference Secretariat

Secrétariat des conférences intergouvernementales canadiennes

  * Canadian International Development Agency

Agence canadienne de développement international

  * Canadian International Trade Tribunal

Tribunal canadien du commerce extérieur

  * Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission

Commission canadienne de sûreté nucléaire

  * Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission

Conseil de la radiodiffusion et des télécommunications canadiennes

  * Canadian Secretariat

Secrétariat canadien

  * Canadian Security Intelligence Service

Service canadien du renseignement de sécurité

  * Canadian Space Agency

Agence spatiale canadienne

  * Canadian Transportation Accident Investigation and Safety Board

Bureau canadien d’enquête sur les accidents de transport et de la sécurité des
transports

  * Civil Aviation Tribunal

Tribunal de l’aviation civile

  * Communications Security Establishment, Department of National Defence

Centre de la sécurité des télécommunications, ministère de la Défense
nationale

  * Competition Tribunal

Tribunal de la concurrence

  * Copyright Board

Commission du droit d’auteur

  * Correctional Service of Canada

Service correctionnel du Canada

  * Economic Council of Canada

Conseil économique du Canada

  * Federal Court of Canada, Staff of

Cour fédérale du Canada, Personnel de la

  * Federal Environmental Assessment Review Office

Bureau fédéral d’examen des évaluations environnementales

  * Federal-Provincial Relations Office

Secrétariat des relations fédérales-provinciales

  * Fisheries Prices Support Board

Office des prix des produits de la pêche

  * Goods and Services Tax Consumer Information Office

Bureau d’information des consommateurs sur la taxe sur les produits et
services

  * Government House (Staff paid by Governor General)

Résidence de Son Excellence le Gouverneur général (personnel rémunéré sur le
traitement ou les allocations du gouverneur général)

  * Government Telecommunications Agency

Agence des télécommunications gouvernementales

  * Grain Transportation Agency

Office du transport du grain

  * Hazardous Materials Information Review Commission

Conseil de contrôle des renseignements relatifs aux matières dangereuses

  * Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada

Commission de l’immigration et du statut de réfugié du Canada

  * Indian Oil and Gas Canada

Pétrole et gaz des Indiens Canada

  * International Boundary Commission

Commission de la frontière internationale

  * International Joint Commission (Canadian Section)

Commission mixte internationale (Section canadienne)

  * Law Commission of Canada

Commission du droit du Canada

  * Machinery and Equipment Advisory Board

Conseil consultatif de la machinerie et de l’équipement

  * Medical Research Council of Canada

Conseil de recherches médicales du Canada

  * National Archives of Canada

Archives nationales du Canada

  * National Battlefields Commission

Commission des champs de bataille nationaux

  * National Energy Board

Office national de l’énergie

  * National Farm Products Marketing Council

Conseil national de commercialisation des produits agricoles

  * National Film Board

Office national du film

  * National Library

Bibliothèque nationale

  * National Parole Board

Commission nationale des libérations conditionnelles

  * National Research Council of Canada

Conseil national de recherches du Canada

  * National Round Table on the Environment and the Economy

Table ronde nationale sur l’environnement et l’économie

  * National Transportation Agency

Office national des transports

  * Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council

Conseil de recherches en sciences naturelles et en génie

  * Northern Pipeline Agency

Administration du pipe-line du Nord

  * Office of the Auditor General

Bureau du vérificateur général

  * Office of the Chief Electoral Officer

Bureau du Directeur général des élections

  * Office of the Commissioner for Federal Judicial Affairs

Bureau du commissaire à la magistrature fédérale

  * Office of the Commissioner of Official Languages

Commissariat aux langues officielles

  * Office of the Comptroller General

Bureau du contrôleur général du Canada

  * Office of the Coordinator, Status of Women

Bureau de la coordonnatrice de la situation de la femme

  * Office of the Correctional Investigator

Bureau de l’enquêteur correctionnel

  * Office of the Governor General’s Secretary

Secrétariat du gouverneur général

  * Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions

Bureau du Surintendant des institutions financières

  * Office of the Umpire

Bureau du juge-arbitre

  * Offices of the Information and Privacy Commissioners of Canada

Commissariats à l’information et à la protection de la vie privée du Canada

  * Patented Medicine Prices Review Board

Conseil d’examen du prix des médicaments brevetés

  * Pension Appeals Board

Commission d’appel des pensions

  * Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Administration

Administration du rétablissement agricole des Prairies

  * Privy Council Office

Bureau du Conseil privé

  * Procurement Review Board

Commission de révision des marchés publics

  * Public Service Commission

Commission de la fonction publique

  * Public Service Staff Relations Board

Commission des relations de travail dans la Fonction publique

  * Royal Canadian Mounted Police

Gendarmerie royale du Canada

  * Royal Canadian Mounted Police External Review Committee

Comité externe d’examen de la Gendarmerie royale du Canada

  * Royal Canadian Mounted Police Public Complaints Commission

Commission des plaintes du public contre la Gendarmerie royale du Canada

  * Science Council of Canada

Conseil des Sciences du Canada

  * Security Intelligence Review Committee

Comité de surveillance des activités de renseignements de sécurité

  * Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council

Conseil de recherches en sciences humaines

  * Statistical Survey Operations

Opérations des enquêtes statistiques

  * Statistics Canada

Statistique Canada

  * Supreme Court of Canada, Staff of

Cour suprême du Canada, Personnel de la

  * Tax Court of Canada

Cour canadienne de l’impôt

  * Transportation Safety Board of Canada

Bureau de la sécurité des transports Canada

  * Treasury Board Secretariat

Secrétariat du Conseil du Trésor

  * Veterans Review and Appeal Board

Tribunal des anciens combattants (révision et appel)

  * 1991, c. 30, Sch. I;
  * SOR/93-307;
  * 1994, c. 31, s. 21, c. 38, ss. 23, 24, c. 41, ss. 31, 32;
  * 1995, c. 1, ss. 57 to 59, c. 5, ss. 22, 23, c. 11, ss. 33, 34, c. 18, ss. 91, 92, c. 29, s. 32;
  * 1996, c. 8, ss. 29, 30, c. 9, s. 29, c. 11, ss. 81 to 83, c. 16, ss. 49, 50;
  * SOR/96-541;
  * 1997, c. 9, ss. 114, 115;
  * 1998, c. 9, ss. 46, 47, c. 26, ss. 79, 80;
  * 1999, c. 31, s. 179;
  * 2000, c. 34, s. 93(F).

## SCHEDULE II(Section 3 and paragraph 21(b))

Agencies, Boards, Commissions and Corporations

Canada Council for the Arts

Canada Museums Construction Corporation Inc.

Canadian Cultural Property Export Review Board

Canadian Dairy Commission

Canadian Livestock Feed Board

Canadian Museum of Civilization

Canadian Museum of Nature

Defence Construction (1951) Ltd.

Enterprise Cape Breton Corporation

National Capital Commission

National Gallery of Canada

National Museum of Science and Technology

Old Port of Montreal Corporation Inc.

  * 1991, c. 30, Sch. II;
  * 2001, c. 34, s. 16.
  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada

