# Western Arctic (Inuvialuit) Claims Settlement Act

S.C. 1984, c. 24

Assented to 1984-06-28

An Act to approve, give effect to and declare valid the Agreement between the
Committee for Original Peoples’ Entitlement, representing the Inuvialuit of
the Inuvialuit Settlement Region, and the Government of Canada and to amend
the National Parks Act in consequence thereof

WHEREAS the Committee for Original Peoples’ Entitlement and the Government of
Canada have entered into an Agreement respecting certain lands in the
Northwest Territories and Yukon Territory in and to which the Inuvialuit have
claimed an interest based on traditional use and occupancy;

AND WHEREAS, in exchange for the surrender of that interest, the Government of
Canada has assumed certain obligations under the Agreement in favour of the
Inuvialuit of the Inuvialuit Settlement Region;

AND WHEREAS the Agreement provides, among other things, for the grant to or
the setting aside for the Inuvialuit of certain lands in the Inuvialuit
Settlement Region, for the right of the Inuvialuit to hunt, fish, trap and
carry on commercial activity within the Inuvialuit Settlement Region in
accordance with the regimes established therein, for measures to preserve
Inuvialuit cultural identity and values within a changing northern society, to
enable the Inuvialuit to be equal and meaningful participants in the northern
and national economy and society and to protect and preserve the Arctic
wildlife, environment and biological productivity and for the payment to the
Inuvialuit of certain compensation;

AND WHEREAS the Agreement further provides, in consideration of the rights and
benefits set forth therein, for the surrender by the Inuvialuit of all their
native claims, rights, title and interests, whatever they may be, in and to
the Territory;

AND WHEREAS the Governments of the Northwest Territories and Yukon Territory
have been consulted and have participated in discussions concerning matters
affecting them and over which they have jurisdiction in relation to the
Agreement;

AND WHEREAS it is expedient that Parliament approve, give effect to and
declare valid the Agreement;

NOW, THEREFORE, Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate
and House of Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

## SHORT TITLE

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Western Arctic (Inuvialuit) Claims Settlement Act](/eng/acts/W-6.7).

## INTERPRETATION

###### Definitions

**2.** In this Act,

**“Agreement”** _« Convention »_

    

“Agreement” means the agreement between the Committee for Original Peoples’
Entitlement, representing the Inuvialuit of the Inuvialuit Settlement Region,
and the Government of Canada dated June 5, 1984, tabled in the House of
Commons for the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development on June
19, 1984 and recorded as document number 322-7/20 and includes an Amending
Agreement;

**“Amending Agreement”** _« Convention modificative »_

    

“Amending Agreement” means

  * (_a_) the Amending Agreement between the Inuvialuit Regional Corporation, representing the Inuvialuit, and the Government of Canada, approved by Order in Council P.C. 1985-1144, tabled in the House of Commons for the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development on December 14, 1987 and recorded as document number 332-4/43,

  * (_b_) the Amending Agreement between the Inuvialuit Regional Corporation, representing the Inuvialuit, and the Government of Canada, approved by Order in Council P.C. 1987-26, tabled in the House of Commons for the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development on December 14, 1987 and recorded as document number 332-4/43A,

  * (_c_) the Amending Agreement between the Inuvialuit Regional Corporation, representing the Inuvialuit, and the Government of Canada, dated May 11, 1987, tabled in the House of Commons for the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development on December 14, 1987 and recorded as document number 332-4/43B, and

  * (_d_) any other Amending Agreement made pursuant to subsection 3(13) of the Agreement;

**“Territory”** _« Territoire »_

    

“Territory” means the Northwest Territories, Yukon Territory and adjacent
offshore areas, not forming part of the Northwest Territories or Yukon
Territory, within the sovereignty or jurisdiction of Canada.

  * 1984, c. 24, s. 2;
  * 1988, c. 16, s. 1;
  * 1993, c. 34, s. 137(F).

## AGREEMENT

###### Agreement approved

**3.** (1) The Agreement is hereby approved, given effect and declared valid.

###### Conferral of rights and benefits

(2) On the extinguishment of the native claims, rights, title and interests
referred to in subsection (3), the beneficiaries under the Agreement shall
have the rights, privileges and benefits set out in the Agreement, including
the land title provided by subsections 7(1) and (2) of the Agreement.

###### Extinguishment of claims

(3) All native claims, rights, title and interests, whatever they may be, in
and to the Territory, of all Inuvialuit, wherever they may be, are hereby
extinguished, but nothing in this Act prejudices the rights of such persons as
Canadian citizens and they shall continue to be entitled to all of the rights
and benefits of all other citizens as well as to those resulting from their
status as aboriginal people of Canada and from other legislation applicable to
them from time to time.

###### Exemption from taxation

(4) The financial compensation provided by the Government of Canada pursuant
to section 15 of the Agreement and the funds provided by the Government of
Canada pursuant to subsections 16(8) and 17(3) of the Agreement are exempt
from taxation in the manner and to the extent set out in that section and
those subsections, respectively.

###### Regulations

(5) The Governor in Council may make such regulations as are necessary for the
purpose of carrying out the Agreement or for giving effect to any of the
provisions thereof.

## CONSTRUCTION

###### Inconsistency or conflict

**4.** Where there is any inconsistency or conflict between this Act or the Agreement and the provisions of any other law applying to the Territory, this Act or the Agreement prevails to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.

###### Construction

**5.** Nothing in this Act or the Agreement shall be interpreted as granting any rights, privileges or benefits in respect of any area beyond the limits of the sovereignty or jurisdiction of Canada.

## APPROPRIATION

###### Payments out of C.R.F.

**6.** There shall be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund such sums as may be required to meet the monetary obligations of Canada under section 15 and subsections 16(8) and 17(3) of the Agreement.

## CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENT

**7.** [Amendment to another Act]

## COMMENCEMENT

###### Coming into force

***8.** This Act shall come into force on a day to be fixed by Proclamation.

*[Note: Act in force July 25, 1984, _see_ SI/84-165.]
  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada

