#  West Coast Ports Operations Act, 1994

S.C.  1994, c. 1

Assented to 1994-02-08

An Act to provide for the maintenance of west coast ports operations

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of
Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

#  SHORT TITLE

######  Marginal note:  Short title

** 1\.  **  This Act may be cited as the  [ West Coast Ports Operations Act, 1994 ](/eng/acts/W-6.4) . 

#  INTERPRETATION

######  Marginal note:  Definitions

  * ** 2\.  **  (1) In this Act, 

“collective agreement”

« convention collective »

    

“collective agreement”  means the collective agreement between the employers’
association and the Union, that expired on December 31, 1992, and includes any
related arrangements concerning contribution and benefit payments in respect
of pensions;

“employee”

« employé »

    

“employee”  means a person who is employed by the employer and is bound by the
collective agreement;

“employer”

« employeur »

    

“employer”  means the employers’ association and any member of the employers’
association, including any member named in Schedule I;

“employers’ association”

« association patronale »

    

“employers’ association”  means the British Columbia Maritime Employers’
Association;

“Minister”

« ministre »

    

“Minister”  means Minister within the meaning of the  [ Canada Labour Code
](/eng/acts/L-2) ;

“union”  and  “the Union”

« syndicat »

    

“union”  means the Union, any local thereof specified in Schedule II and any
other local thereof that represents persons ordinarily employed in longshoring
or related operations at any port on the west coast of Canada, and  “the
Union”  means the International Longshoremen’s and Warehousemen’s Union —
Canadian Area.

  * ######  Marginal note:  Words and expressions 

(2) Unless otherwise provided, words and expressions used in this Act have the
same meaning as in Part I of the  [ Canada Labour Code ](/eng/acts/L-2) .

#  RESUMPTION OF LONGSHORING OPERATIONS

######  Marginal note:  Resumption of operations and work

** Footnote  *  3\.  **  On the coming into force of this Act, 

  * ( _ a _ ) the employer shall forthwith resume longshoring and related operations at ports on the west coast of Canada; and 

  * ( _ b _ ) every employee shall, when required to do so, forthwith resume the duties of that employee’s employment. 

    * Return to footnote  *  [Note: Act in force on the expiration of the twelfth hour after the time at which this Act is assented to (assent date being February 8, 1994), _ see _ section 20.] 

#  OBLIGATIONS

######  Marginal note:  Obligations of employer

** Footnote  *  4\.  **  Neither the employer nor any officer or representative of the employer shall 

  * ( _ a _ ) in any manner impede any employee from complying with paragraph 3( _ b _ ); or 

  * ( _ b _ ) discharge or in any other manner discipline, or authorize or direct the discharge or discipline of, any employee by reason of that employee’s having been on strike before the coming into force of this Act. 

    * Return to footnote  *  [Note: Act in force on the expiration of the twelfth hour after the time at which this Act is assented to (assent date being February 8, 1994), _ see _ section 20.] 

######  Marginal note:  Obligations of union

** Footnote  *  5\.  **  The union and each officer and representative of the union shall 

  * ( _ a _ ) forthwith on the coming into force of this Act, give notice to the employees that, by reason of that coming into force, longshoring and related operations at ports on the west coast of Canada are to be resumed and that the employees, when required to do so, are forthwith to resume the duties of their employment; 

  * ( _ b _ ) take all reasonable steps to ensure that employees comply with paragraph 3( _ b _ ); 

  * ( _ c _ ) refrain from any conduct that may encourage employees not to comply with paragraph 3( _ b _ ); and 

  * ( _ d _ ) comply with any order or request made pursuant to the collective agreement for the dispatch of employees to perform longshoring or related operations at a port on the west coast of Canada. 

    * Return to footnote  *  [Note: Act in force on the expiration of the twelfth hour after the time at which this Act is assented to (assent date being February 8, 1994), _ see _ section 20.] 

######  Marginal note:  Extension of collective agreement

  * ** 6\.  **  (1) The term of the collective agreement is extended to include the period beginning on January 1, 1993 and ending on the day on which a new collective agreement between the employers’ association and the Union comes into effect. 

  * ######  Marginal note:  Collective agreement binding for extended term 

(2) The collective agreement, as extended by this Act, is effective and
binding on the employer and the union for the period for which it is extended
notwithstanding anything in Part I of the  [ Canada Labour Code
](/eng/acts/L-2) or in the collective agreement, and Part I of that Act
applies in respect of the collective agreement as if that period were the term
of the collective agreement.

######  Marginal note:  Strikes and lockouts prohibited

** 7\.  **  During the term of the collective agreement, as extended by subsection 6(1), 

  * ( _ a _ ) the employer shall not declare or cause a lockout against the union; 

  * ( _ b _ ) no officer or representative of the union shall declare or authorize a strike against the employer; and 

  * ( _ c _ ) no employee shall participate in a strike against the employer. 

#  FINAL OFFER SELECTION

######  Marginal note:  Recommendation of person to be arbitrator

  * ** Footnote  *  8\.  **  (1) At any time within seven days after the coming into force of this Act, the employers’ association and the Union may provide the Minister with the name of a person that they jointly recommend be appointed arbitrator for the purpose of final offer selection. 

    * Return to footnote  *  [Note: Act in force on the expiration of the twelfth hour after the time at which this Act is assented to (assent date being February 8, 1994), _ see _ section 20.] 

  * ######  Marginal note:  Appointment of arbitrator 

(2) The Minister shall, as soon as practicable, appoint the person recommended
under subsection (1) as arbitrator for final offer selection, and where no
person is recommended under subsection (1) within the period referred to in
that subsection, the Minister shall, as soon as practicable, appoint as
arbitrator for final offer selection such person as the Minister considers
appropriate.

######  Marginal note:  Obligation to provide final offer

  * ** 9\.  **  (1) Within such time and in such manner as the arbitrator may specify, the employers’ association and the Union shall each submit to the arbitrator 

    * ( _ a _ ) a list of the matters on which the employers’ association and the Union were in agreement as of February 7, 1994 and proposed contractual language that would give effect to those matters; 

    * ( _ b _ ) a list of the matters remaining in dispute on February 7, 1994; and 

    * ( _ c _ ) a final offer in respect of the matters referred to in paragraph ( _ b _ ). 

  * ######  Marginal note:  Contractual language 

(2) The final offer referred to in paragraph (1)( _ c _ ) must be submitted
with proposed contractual language that can be incorporated into the new
collective agreement.

######  Marginal note:  Duties of arbitrator

  * ** 10\.  **  (1) Within ninety days after being appointed, or within such greater period as may be specified by the Minister, the arbitrator shall 

    * ( _ a _ ) determine the matters on which the employers’ association and the Union were in agreement as of February 7, 1994; 

    * ( _ b _ ) determine the matters remaining in dispute on February 7, 1994; 

    * ( _ c _ ) select, in order to resolve the matters remaining in dispute, either the final offer submitted by the employers’ association or the final offer submitted by the Union; 

    * ( _ d _ ) make a decision in respect of the resolution of the matters referred to in this subsection and send a copy of the decision to the employers’ association and the Union; and 

    * ( _ e _ ) forward a copy of the decision to the Minister. 

  * ######  Marginal note:  Where no final offer submitted 

(2) Where either the employers’ association or the Union fails to provide the
arbitrator with a final offer in accordance with paragraph 9(1)( _ c _ ), the
arbitrator shall select the final offer provided by the other party.

  * ######  Marginal note:  Contractual language 

(3) The arbitrator’s decision shall be drafted in such manner as to constitute
a new collective agreement between the employers’ association and the Union
and, to the extent that it is possible, incorporate the contractual language
referred to in paragraph 9(1)( _ a _ ) and the final offer selected by the
arbitrator.

######  Marginal note:  New collective agreement

  * ** 11\.  **  (1) The arbitrator’s decision constitutes a new collective agreement between the employers’ association and the Union effective as of the day it is made until December 31, 1995 notwithstanding anything in Part I of the  [ Canada Labour Code ](/eng/acts/L-2) , and Part I of that Act applies in respect of the collective agreement as if it had been entered into pursuant to that Part. 

  * ######  Marginal note:  Application 

(2) The new collective agreement may provide that any term or condition
thereof is effective and binding on a day before or after the day the new
collective agreement becomes effective.

######  Marginal note:  Powers of arbitrator

** 12\.  **  The arbitrator has, with such modifications as the circumstances require, all the powers and duties of an arbitrator under sections 60 and 61 of the  [ Canada Labour Code ](/eng/acts/L-2) . 

######  Marginal note:  Costs

** 13\.  **  All costs incurred by Her Majesty in right of Canada relating to the appointment of the arbitrator and the exercise of the arbitrator’s duties under this Act are debts due to Her Majesty in right of Canada and may be recovered as such, in equal parts, from the employers’ association and the Union in any court of competent jurisdiction. 

#  AMENDMENTS TO COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT

######  Marginal note:  Amendments

** 14\.  **  Nothing in this Act shall be construed so as to limit or restrict the rights of the employers’ association and the Union to agree to amend any provision of the collective agreement extended by this Act, or any new collective agreement referred to in section 11, other than a provision relating to the term of the agreement, and to give effect thereto. 

#  ENFORCEMENT

######  Marginal note:  Individuals

  * ** 15\.  **  (1) An individual who contravenes any provision of this Act is guilty of an offence punishable on summary conviction and is liable, for each day or part of a day during which the offence continues, to a fine 

    * ( _ a _ ) of not more than $50,000, where the individual was acting in the capacity of an officer or representative of the employer or the union when the offence was committed; or 

    * ( _ b _ ) of not more than $1,000, in any other case. 

  * ######  Marginal note:  Employer or union 

(2) Where the employer or the union contravenes any provision of this Act, it
is guilty of an offence punishable on summary conviction and is liable, for
each day or part of a day during which the offence continues, to a fine of not
more than $100,000.

######  Marginal note:  No imprisonment

** 16\.  **  Notwithstanding subsection 787(2) of the  [ Criminal Code ](/eng/acts/C-46) , a term of imprisonment may not be imposed in default of payment of a fine that is imposed under section 15. 

######  Marginal note:  Recovery of fines

** 17\.  **  Where a person is convicted of an offence under section 15 and the fine that is imposed is not paid when required, the prosecutor may, by filing the conviction, enter as a judgment the amount of the fine and costs, if any, in a superior court of the province in which the trial was held, and the judgment is enforceable against the person in the same manner as if it were a judgment rendered against the person in that court in civil proceedings. 

######  Marginal note:  Presumption

** 18\.  **  For the purposes of this Act, the employer and the union are deemed to be persons. 

######  Marginal note:  Due diligence

** 19\.  **  For greater certainty, nothing in this Act shall be construed so as to restrict a person from raising a defence of due diligence in a prosecution for an offence under section 15. 

#  COMING INTO FORCE

######  Marginal note:  Coming into force

** Footnote  *  20\.  **  This Act shall come into force on the expiration of the twelfth hour after the time at which it is assented to. 

  * Return to footnote  *  [Note: Act assented to February 8, 1994.] 

#  SCHEDULE I  (Subsection 2(1))  MEMBERS OF THE EMPLOYERS’ ASSOCIATION

  * Anchor Shipping Ltd. 

  * Anglo Canadian Shipping Company 

  * Arrow Stevedoring Inc. 

  * Associated Stevedoring Co. Ltd. 

  * Blue Star Pace, Ltd. 

  * Canada Maritime Agencies Limited 

  * Canadian Stevedoring Company Limited 

  * Canadian Transport Company Limited 

  * Casco Terminals Limited 

  * Cerescorp Inc. 

  * Coastal Containers Ltd. 

  * Compass Marine Services Inc. 

  * Dominion Shipping Co. Ltd. 

  * Empire International Stevedores Ltd. 

  * Empire Shipping Company Limited 

  * Empire Stevedoring Company Limited 

  * Fibreco Export Inc. 

  * Fletcher Challenge Canada Limited — Stuart Channel Wharves Division 

  * Fraser Surrey Docks Ltd. 

  * Gearbulk Shipping Canada Ltd. 

  * Global Marine (Canada) Inc. 

  * Greer Shipping Ltd. 

  * Inchcape Shipping Services — Canada 

  * International Chartering Services Ltd. 

  * Interocean Steamship Corporation 

  * “K” Line Canada, Ltd. 

  * Kerr Steamship Company Ltd. 

  * Kingsley Navigation Ltd. 

  * Lavino Shipping Agencies, a division of Wescol Shipping Inc. 

  * Louis Wolfe &amp; Sons (Vancouver) Ltd. 

  * Maersk Canada Inc. 

  * Maple Shipping 

  * Maritime Agencies Ltd. 

  * McLean Kennedy Inc. 

  * Montreal Shipping Inc. 

  * Morflot Freightliners Limited 

  * Neptune Bulk Terminals (Canada) Ltd. 

  * Nootka Shipping International Limited 

  * North Pacific Shipping Company Ltd. 

  * Norton Lilly International (Canada) Inc. 

  * Numoor Equipment Ltd. 

  * OOCL (Canada) Inc. 

  * Pacific Coast Shipping and Agency Co. Ltd. 

  * Pacific Coast Terminals Co. Ltd. 

  * Pacific Commerce Line Inc. 

  * Pacific Rim Stevedoring Ltd. 

  * Pacific Rim Waterways Inc. 

  * Pacific Stevedoring &amp; Contracting Co. Ltd. 

  * PacNord Agencies Ltd. 

  * Pan Pacific Shipping Co., (Canada) Inc. 

  * PCDC Canada Ltd. 

  * Saga Forest Carriers International (Canada) Ltd. 

  * Seaboard Shipping Company Limited 

  * Seabord International Terminal Ltd. 

  * SMI Marine Limited 

  * Squamish Terminals Limited 

  * Star Shipping (Canada) Ltd. 

  * Sunline Shipping &amp; Enterprises (Canada) Ltd. 

  * Terminal Dock Limited 

  * Trans-Oceanic Shipping Co. Ltd. 

  * United Stevedoring Ltd. 

  * Vancouver Shipping Agencies Ltd. 

  * Vancouver Wharves Ltd. 

  * Westcan Stevedoring Ltd. 

  * Westcan Terminals Ltd. 

  * Western Stevedoring Company Limited 

  * Western Stevedoring Terminal Operations Ltd. 

  * Westward Shipping Ltd. 

  * Weyerhaeuser Canada Ltd. 

  * White Pass Transportation Limited 

#  SCHEDULE II  (Subsection 2(1))  UNION LOCALS

Locals 500, 502, 503, 504, 505, 506, 508, 515 and 519 of the International
Longshoremen’s and Warehousemen’s Union — Canadian Area.

  *[
  S.C.

 ]: Statutes of Canada

