# Highway 30 Completion Bridges Act

S.C. 2005, c. 37

Assented to 2005-11-03

An Act to authorize the construction and maintenance of a bridge over the St. Lawrence River and a bridge over the Beauharnois Canal for the purpose of completing Highway 30

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

###### Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Highway 30 Completion Bridges Act](/canada/eng/acts/H/H-3.8.md).

###### Bridge over St. Lawrence River

**2.** (1) The Province of Quebec is authorized to construct and maintain a bridge for the movement of persons and vehicles over the St. Lawrence River between the municipality of Les Cèdres and the city of Salaberry-de-Valleyfield (Saint-Timothée sector).

###### Bridge over Beauharnois Canal

(2) The Province of Quebec is authorized to construct and maintain a bridge for the movement of persons and vehicles over the Beauharnois Canal between the city of Salaberry-de-Valleyfield (Saint-Timothée sector) and the city of Beauharnois.

###### Ancillary works

(3) The Province of Quebec is also authorized to construct and maintain approaches and other works ancillary to those bridges.

###### Approval before construction

**3.** (1) Construction of the bridges or ancillary works may not begin until

  * (_a_) the following documents have been submitted to the Minister of Transport for examination by the Governor in Council:

    * (i) plans and specifications for the proposed bridges and ancillary works, indicating in particular their vertical clearance and geodesic reference,

    * (ii) a map indicating the proposed location of the bridges and ancillary works, and

    * (iii) a bathymetric chart of the streams at the proposed location of the bridges;

  * (_b_) any other document or information necessary for a full examination of the proposed construction of the bridges and ancillary works has been provided to the Minister of Transport; and

  * (_c_) the location of the bridges and ancillary works, and the plans and specifications for them, have been approved by the Governor in Council.

###### Change in location

(2) No change in the location of the bridges may be made without a new approval of the Governor in Council.

###### Change in plans or specifications

(3) No substantial change in the plans or specifications for the bridges or ancillary works may be made without a new approval of the Governor in Council.

###### Power to make regulations

**4.** The Governor in Council may, for the purposes of navigation and shipping on the St. Lawrence River and the Beauharnois Canal, make regulations respecting the construction and maintenance of the bridges and ancillary works authorized by this Act.

###### Application of other Acts

**5.** For greater certainty, nothing in this Act limits the application of the [Navigation Protection Act](/canada/eng/acts/N/N-22.md) or any other Act of Parliament in respect of the construction and maintenance of the bridges and ancillary works authorized by this Act.

  * 2005, c. 37, s. 5;
  * 2012, c. 31, s. 347.

Previous Version
  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada
