  * Skip to main content
  * Skip to secondary menu

## Site menu

![Government of Canada](/build/theme-gcwu-fegc/images/sig-eng.gif)

  * [Canada.ca](http://www.canada.ca/en/index.html)
  * [Services](http://www.canada.ca/en/services/index.html)
  * [Departments](http://www.canada.ca/en/gov/dept/index.html)
  * [Français](/scripts/changelanguage.asp)

![Symbol of the Government of Canada](/build/theme-gcwu-fegc/images/wmms.gif)

[Justice Laws Website](/eng)

## Search

Search website

## Site menu

  * ### Family Law

    * [Child Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/child-enfant/index.html)
    * [Divorce and Separation](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/divorce/index.html)
    * [Enforcing Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/enforce-execution/index.html)
    * [Family Justice Services](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/fjs-sjf/index.html)
    * [Custody and Parenting](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/parent/index.html)
    * [Spousal Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/spousal-epoux/index.html)
    * [Publications](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/pub.html)
    * [Provincial and Territorial Contacts](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/pt-tp/index.html)
    * [Contact Us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/contact/index.html)

[Family Law - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/index.html)

  * ### Criminal Justice

    * [Youth Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/yj-jj/index.html)
    * [Victims](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/victims-victimes/index.html)
    * [Family Violence](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/fv-vf/index.html)
    * [Criminal Conviction Review](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ccr-rc/index.html)
    * [Human Trafficking](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/tp/index.html)
    * [War Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/wc-cdg/index.html)
    * [National Security](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ns-sn/index.html)
    * [Extradition and Mutual Legal Assistance](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/emla-eej/index.html)

[Criminal Justice - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/index.html)

  * ### Funding

    * [Aboriginal Communities](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/acf-fca/index.html)
    * [Criminal Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/cj-jp/index.html)
    * [Family Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/famil/index.html)
    * [Justice System and Policy](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/jsp-sjp/index.html)
    * [Funding for Other Levels of Government](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/gov-gouv/index.html)
    * [Apply for Funding](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/form.html)

[Funding - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/index.html)

  * ### Canada's System of Justice

    * [About Canada's System of Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/just/)
    * [Bijuralism and Harmonization](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/harmonization/index.html)
    * [Canada's Court System](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/ccs-ajc/)
    * [Justice in Official Languages](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/franc/index.html)
    * [Legal Dualism and Bilingual Bisystemism](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/dualism-dualisme/index.html)

[Canada's System of Justice - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/)

  * ### Laws

    * [Constitutional Documents](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/Const/Const_index.html)
    * [Acts](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/)
    * [Regulations](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/regulations/)
    * [Search for an Act or Regulation ](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/Search/Search.aspx)

[Laws - More](/eng/)

## Breadcrumb trail

  1. [Home](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng)
  2. [Laws Website Home](/eng)
  3. [Consolidated Acts](/eng/acts/)
  4. [S.C. 1998, c. 24 -  Table of Contents](../index.html)
  5. [ Previous versions](../PITIndex.html)
  6. S.C. 1998, c. 24

[This Web page has been archived on the Web.](/eng/ArchiveNote)

Version of document from 2002-12-31 to 2005-08-30:

# Mi’kmaq Education Act

S.C. 1998, c. 24

Assented to 1998-06-18

An Act respecting the powers of the Mi’kmaq of Nova Scotia in relation to
education

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of
Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

# SHORT TITLE

###### Marginal note:Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Mi’kmaq Education Act](/eng/acts/M-7.6).

# INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION

###### Marginal note:Definitions

**2.** The definitions in this section apply in this Act.

“Agreement”

« convention »

    

“Agreement” means the agreement between Her Majesty the Queen in right of
Canada and the Mi’kmaq Bands in Nova Scotia with respect to education, signed
on February 14, 1997.

“band”

« bande »

    

“band” means a band within the meaning of the [Indian Act](/eng/acts/I-5).

“community”

« communauté »

    

“community” means a band that is named in the schedule.

“constitution”

« constitution »

    

“constitution” means a constitution in relation to education adopted by the
council of a community that is in conformity with the provisions of Schedule D
to the Agreement.

“council”

« conseil »

    

“council”, in relation to a band or community, means the council of the band
or community as referred to in the [Indian Act](/eng/acts/I-5).

“member”

« membre »

    

“member”, in relation to a community, means a person whose name appears on the
band list maintained for the community in accordance with the [Indian
Act](/eng/acts/I-5) or who is entitled to have that name appear on the band
list.

“reserve”

« réserve »

    

“reserve” means a reserve within the meaning of the [Indian
Act](/eng/acts/I-5).

###### Marginal note:Legal capacity

  * **3.** (1) For the purposes of this Act, a community shall act through its council.

  * ###### Marginal note:Majority vote

(2) For greater certainty, paragraph 2(3)(_b_) of the [Indian
Act](/eng/acts/I-5) applies in respect of the powers of the council of a
community under this Act.

###### Marginal note:Purpose

**4.** The purpose of this Act is to enable communities to exercise jurisdiction in relation to education, as provided in the Agreement.

###### Marginal note:Application of Act

**5.** This Act applies to every community for which a constitution is in effect.

# POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMUNITIES

###### Marginal note:Legislative power

  * **6.** (1) A community may, to the extent provided by the Agreement, make laws applicable on the reserve of the community in relation to primary, elementary and secondary education.

  * ###### Marginal note:Legislative power — post-secondary support

(2) A community may make laws in relation to the administration and
expenditure of community funds in support of post-secondary education, as
provided by the Agreement, for members of the community wherever resident.

###### Marginal note:Programs and services

  * **7.** (1) A community shall, to the extent provided by the Agreement, provide or make provision for primary, elementary and secondary educational programs and services for residents of its reserve.

  * ###### Marginal note:Transferability

(2) The educational programs and services so provided must be comparable to
programs and services provided by other education systems in Canada, in order
to permit the transfer of students to and from those systems without academic
penalty to the same extent as students can transfer between those other
education systems.

###### Marginal note:Community education boards

**8.** A community education board established by the laws of the community may carry out any powers conferred on it by those laws or by resolution of the council acting pursuant to section 7.

###### Marginal note:Enactment of laws

  * **9.** (1) Laws of a community shall be enacted in the manner provided by its constitution.

  * ###### Marginal note:Publication

(2) The council of a community shall publish a law not later than thirty days
after its enactment in a manner that affords a reasonable opportunity to
members of the community resident on the reserve to become aware of it.

  * ###### Marginal note:Public access

(3) The council of a community shall make copies of the laws of the community
and of its constitution available at its office for public inspection during
normal business hours, and Mi’kmaw-Kina’matnewey shall make copies of the laws
and constitutions of all communities available for public inspection at its
office during normal business hours.

  * ###### Marginal note:Evidence

(4) In any proceedings, evidence of a law of a community may be given by the
production of a copy of the law, certified to be a true copy by a person
authorized by the community, without proof of that person’s signature or
official character.

  * ###### Marginal note:[Statutory Instruments Act](/eng/acts/S-22) not applicable

(5) The [Statutory Instruments Act](/eng/acts/S-22) does not apply in respect
of the laws of a community.

# MI’KMAW-KINA’MATNEWEY

###### Marginal note:Corporation established

  * **10.** (1) A corporation without share capital to be known as Mi’kmaw-Kina’matnewey is hereby established for the purpose of supporting the delivery of educational programs and services under this Act.

  * ###### Marginal note:Directors

(2) The chiefs of the communities are the members of the corporation and
together constitute its board of directors, and the board may provide, by by-
law or otherwise, for the management and conduct of the affairs of the
corporation.

  * ###### Marginal note:Application of [Canada Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-1.8)

(3) For greater certainty, Part III of the [Canada Corporations
Act](/eng/acts/C-1.8), chapter C-32 of the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1970,
applies to the corporation and, in the application of section 102 of that Act
to the corporation, a reference to shareholders shall be read as a reference
to directors.

# INDIAN ACT

###### Marginal note:[Indian Act](/eng/acts/I-5) not applicable

**11.** Sections 114 to 122 of the [Indian Act](/eng/acts/I-5) do not apply to a community or its members.

# AMENDMENT OF SCHEDULE

###### Marginal note:Addition of band to schedule

  * **12.** (1) The Governor in Council may, by order, add to the schedule the name of any band of Mi’kmaq in the province of Nova Scotia if the Governor in Council is satisfied that

    * (_a_) the council of the band has, in a manner consistent with the Agreement, authorized the Agreement to be signed on behalf of the band; and

    * (_b_) the Agreement has been signed on behalf of the band.

  * ###### Marginal note:Deletion of community from schedule

(2) The Governor in Council may, by order, delete the name of a community from
the schedule if the Governor in Council is satisfied that the council of the
community has, in a manner consistent with the Agreement, authorized the
withdrawal of the community from the Agreement.

  * ###### Marginal note:Effective date of amendment

(3) Where the council of a band or community, during the twelve-month period
ending on June 30 in any year, authorizes the signing of the Agreement or
withdrawal from the Agreement, the amendment to the schedule adding the name
of the band or deleting the name of the community shall be made effective on
April 1 of the following year.

# COMING INTO FORCE

###### Marginal note:Order

  * **Footnote *13.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), this Act comes into force, or shall be deemed to have come into force, on a day to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

  * ###### Marginal note:Section 10

(2) Section 10 comes into force on a day to be fixed by order of the Governor
in Council following adoption by the chiefs of the bands named in the schedule
of a resolution for the establishment of Mi’kmaw-Kina’matnewey.

    * Return to footnote *[Note: Act in force April 22, 1999, _see_ SI/99-44.]

# SCHEDULE(Sections 2, 12 and 13)

  * 1. 

Acadia Band

  * 2. 

Annapolis Valley Band

  * 3. 

Chapel Island Band

  * 4. 

Eskasoni Band

  * 5. 

Membertou Band

  * 6. 

Pictou Landing First Nation

  * 7. 

Shubenacadie First Nation

  * 8. 

Wagmatcook Band

  * 9. 

Whycocomagh First Nation

  * Mi’kmaq Education Act
    * 1 - SHORT TITLE
    * 2 - INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION
    * 6 - POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMUNITIES
    * 10 - MI’KMAW-KINA’MATNEWEY
    * 11 - INDIAN ACT
    * 12 - AMENDMENT OF SCHEDULE
    * 13 - COMING INTO FORCE
    * SCHEDULE

Date modified:

    2015-06-04

## Secondary menu

### Laws

  * [Constitutional Documents](/eng/Const/Const_index.html)
  * [Consolidated Acts](/eng/acts/)
  * [Consolidated Regulations](/eng/regulations/)
  * [Annual Statutes](/eng/AnnualStatutes/index.html)
  * [Statutes Repeal Act: Reports and Repeals](/eng/Reports/)
  * [Miscellaneous Statute Law Amendment Program](/eng/MSLA/)

### Search

  * [Basic Search](/Search/Search.aspx)
  * [Advanced Search](/Search/Advanced.aspx)

### Resources

  * [Table of Public Statutes and Responsible Ministers](/eng/TablePublicStatutes/index.html)
  * [Table of Private Acts](/eng/TablePrivateActs/index.html)
  * [Consolidated Index of Statutory Instruments](/eng/IndexStatutoryInstruments)
  * [Related Resources](/eng/RelatedResources)

### Help

  * [Accessibility](/eng/Accessibility)
  * [FAQ](/eng/FAQ)
  * [General](/eng/GeneralHelp)
  * [Search Help](/eng/SearchHelp)
  * [PDF Help](/eng/PDFHelp)
  * [How to Create Stable Links](/eng/LinkingGuide)
  * [Printing](/eng/Printing)
  * [Glossary](/eng/Glossary)
  * [Important Note](/eng/ImportantNote)

## Footer

### Site footer

  * [Terms and conditions](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/terms-avis/index.html)
  * [Transparency](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/trans/index.html)

#### [Contact us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/index.html)

  * [Policy on Legal Assistance](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm4.html)
  * [Service on the Crown ](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm3.html)
  * [Guide to Canadian Legal Information](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm2.html)
  * [Help](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/help-aide.html)
  * [Helpful Links](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/link-lien.html)

#### [About us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/index.html)

  * [The Minister and Attorney General](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/mag-mpg.html)
  * [Organization](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/org.html)
  * [Acts and Regulations](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/trans/ar-lr/index.html)
  * [Careers and Articling ](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/recru/index.html)
  * [Reports and Publications](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/rp-pr/index.html)
  * [Sustainable Development](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/sd-dd/index.html)

#### [News](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/index.html)

  * [News Releases](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=1&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=26&crtr.mnthStrtVl=2&crtr.yrStrtVl=2008&crtr.dyndVl=31&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Backgrounders](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=930&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=26&crtr.mnthStrtVl=2&crtr.yrStrtVl=2008&crtr.dyndVl=27&crtr.mnthndVl=3&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Judicial Appointments](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/ja-nj.asp?tid=4)
  * [Speeches](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=970&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=21&crtr.mnthStrtVl=1&crtr.yrStrtVl=2002&crtr.dyndVl=21&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Media Notices](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=3&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=9&crtr.mnthStrtVl=1&crtr.yrStrtVl=2012&crtr.dyndVl=9&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Photo Gallery](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/photo/index.html)

#### [Stay connected](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/connect-branches.html)

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [RSS](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/rss.html)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/user/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [Public Consultations](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cons/index.html)

### Government of Canada footer

  * [Health](http://healthycanadians.gc.ca/index-eng.php)
  * [Travel](http://www.travel.gc.ca/index-eng.asp)
  * [Service Canada](http://www.servicecanada.gc.ca/eng/home.shtml)
  * [Jobs](http://www.jobbank.gc.ca/intro-eng.aspx)
  * [Economy](http://actionplan.gc.ca/eng/index.asp)
  * [Canada.ca](http://www.canada.ca/en/index.html)

![DCSIMG](//j1.justice.gc.ca/dcs7902nd5ihvq0jmbpwr0wnu_8j4x/njs.gif?dcsuri=/no
javascript&WT.js=No&WT.tv=9.4.0&dcssip=www.laws-lois.justice.gc.ca)

  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada

