#  Statutory Instruments Act

R.S.C.  , 1985, c. S-22

An Act to provide for the examination, publication and scrutiny of regulations
and other statutory instruments

##  SHORT TITLE

######  Short title

** 1\.  **  This Act may be cited as the  [ Statutory Instruments Act ](/eng/acts/S-22) . 

  * 1970-71-72, c. 38, s. 1. 

##  INTERPRETATION

######  Definitions

  * ** 2\.  **  (1) In this Act, 

“prescribed”

Version anglaise seulement

    

“prescribed”  means prescribed by regulations made pursuant to this Act;

“regulation”

« règlement »

    

“regulation”  means a statutory instrument

    * ( _ a _ ) made in the exercise of a legislative power conferred by or under an Act of Parliament, or 

    * ( _ b _ ) for the contravention of which a penalty, fine or imprisonment is prescribed by or under an Act of Parliament, 

and includes a rule, order or regulation governing the practice or procedure
in any proceedings before a judicial or quasi-judicial body established by or
under an Act of Parliament, and any instrument described as a regulation in
any other Act of Parliament;

“regulation-making authority”

« autorité réglementante »

    

“regulation-making authority”  means any authority authorized to make
regulations and, with reference to any particular regulation or proposed
regulation, means the authority that made or proposes to make the regulation;

“statutory instrument”

« texte réglementaire »

    

“statutory instrument”

    * ( _ a _ ) means any rule, order, regulation, ordinance, direction, form, tariff of costs or fees, letters patent, commission, warrant, proclamation, by-law, resolution or other instrument issued, made or established 

      * (i) in the execution of a power conferred by or under an Act of Parliament, by or under which that instrument is expressly authorized to be issued, made or established otherwise than by the conferring on any person or body of powers or functions in relation to a matter to which that instrument relates, or 

      * (ii) by or under the authority of the Governor in Council, otherwise than in the execution of a power conferred by or under an Act of Parliament, 

but

    * ( _ b _ ) does not include 

      * (i) any instrument referred to in paragraph ( _ a _ ) and issued, made or established by a corporation incorporated by or under an Act of Parliament unless 

        * (A) the instrument is a regulation and the corporation by which it is made is one that is ultimately accountable, through a Minister, to Parliament for the conduct of its affairs, or 

        * (B) the instrument is one for the contravention of which a penalty, fine or imprisonment is prescribed by or under an Act of Parliament, 

      * (ii) any instrument referred to in paragraph ( _ a _ ) and issued, made or established by a judicial or quasi-judicial body, unless the instrument is a rule, order or regulation governing the practice or procedure in proceedings before a judicial or quasi-judicial body established by or under an Act of Parliament, 

      * (iii) any instrument referred to in paragraph ( _ a _ ) and in respect of which, or in respect of the production or other disclosure of which, any privilege exists by law or whose contents are limited to advice or information intended only for use or assistance in the making of a decision or the determination of policy, or in the ascertainment of any matter necessarily incidental thereto, or 

      * (iv) an ordinance of the Yukon Territory or the Northwest Territories, a law made by the Legislature for Nunavut, a rule made by the Legislative Assembly of Nunavut under section 21 of the  [ Nunavut Act ](/eng/acts/N-28.6) or any instrument issued, made or established under any such ordinance, law or rule. 

  * ######  Determination of whether certain instruments are regulations 

(2) In applying the definition "regulation" in subsection (1) for the purpose
of determining whether an instrument described in subparagraph ( _ b _ )(i) of
the definition "statutory instrument" in that subsection is a regulation, that
instrument shall be deemed to be a statutory instrument, and any instrument
accordingly determined to be a regulation shall be deemed to be a regulation
for all purposes of this Act.

  * R.S., 1985, c. S-22, s. 2; 
  * 1993, c. 28, s. 78; 
  * 1998, c. 15, s. 38. 

##  EXAMINATION OF PROPOSED REGULATIONS

######  Proposed regulations sent to Clerk of Privy Council

  * ** 3\.  **  (1) Subject to any regulations made pursuant to paragraph 20( _ a _ ), where a regulation-making authority proposes to make a regulation, it shall cause to be forwarded to the Clerk of the Privy Council three copies of the proposed regulation in both official languages. 

  * ######  Examination 

(2) On receipt by the Clerk of the Privy Council of copies of a proposed
regulation pursuant to subsection (1), the Clerk of the Privy Council, in
consultation with the Deputy Minister of Justice, shall examine the proposed
regulation to ensure that

    * ( _ a _ ) it is authorized by the statute pursuant to which it is to be made; 

    * ( _ b _ ) it does not constitute an unusual or unexpected use of the authority pursuant to which it is to be made; 

    * ( _ c _ ) it does not trespass unduly on existing rights and freedoms and is not, in any case, inconsistent with the purposes and provisions of the  Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms  and the  [ Canadian Bill of Rights ](/eng/acts/C-12.3) ; and 

    * ( _ d _ ) the form and draftsmanship of the proposed regulation are in accordance with established standards. 

  * ######  Advise regulation-making authority 

(3) When a proposed regulation has been examined as required by subsection
(2), the Clerk of the Privy Council shall advise the regulation-making
authority that the proposed regulation has been so examined and shall indicate
any matter referred to in paragraph (2)( _ a _ ), ( _ b _ ), ( _ c _ ) or ( _
d _ ) to which, in the opinion of the Deputy Minister of Justice, based on
that examination, the attention of the regulation-making authority should be
drawn.

  * ######  Application 

(4) Paragraph (2)( _ d _ ) does not apply to any proposed rule, order or
regulation governing the practice or procedure in any proceedings before the
Supreme Court of Canada, the Federal Court of Canada, the Tax Court of Canada
or the Court Martial Appeal Court of Canada.

  * R.S., 1985, c. S-22, s. 3; 
  * R.S., 1985, c. 31 (1st Supp.), s. 94, c. 51 (4th Supp.), s. 22. 

######  Doubt as to nature of proposed statutory instrument

** 4\.  **  Where any regulation-making authority or other authority responsible for the issue, making or establishment of a statutory instrument, or any person acting on behalf of such an authority, is uncertain as to whether a proposed statutory instrument would be a regulation if it were issued, made or established by that authority, it or he shall cause a copy of the proposed statutory instrument to be forwarded to the Deputy Minister of Justice who shall determine whether or not the instrument would be a regulation if it were so issued, made or established. 

  * 1970-71-72, c. 38, s. 4. 

##  TRANSMISSION AND REGISTRATION

######  Transmission of regulations to Clerk of Privy Council

  * ** 5\.  **  (1) Subject to any regulations made pursuant to paragraph 20( _ b _ ), every regulation-making authority shall, within seven days after making a regulation, transmit copies of the regulation in both official languages to the Clerk of the Privy Council for registration pursuant to section 6. 

  * ######  Copies to be certified 

(2) One copy of each of the official language versions of each regulation that
is transmitted to the Clerk of the Privy Council pursuant to subsection (1),
other than a regulation made or approved by the Governor in Council, shall be
certified by the regulation-making authority to be a true copy thereof.

  * R.S., 1985, c. S-22, s. 5; 
  * R.S., 1985, c. 31 (4th Supp.), s. 102. 

######  Registration of statutory instruments

** 6\.  **  Subject to subsection 7(1), the Clerk of the Privy Council shall register 

  * ( _ a _ ) every regulation transmitted to him pursuant to subsection 5(1); 

  * ( _ b _ ) every statutory instrument, other than a regulation, that is required by or under any Act of Parliament to be published in the  [ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) and is so published; and 

  * ( _ c _ ) every statutory instrument or other document that, pursuant to any regulation made under paragraph 20( _ g _ ), is directed or authorized by the Clerk of the Privy Council to be published in the  [ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) . 

  * R.S., 1985, c. S-22, s. 6; 
  * 1993, c. 34, s. 113(F). 

######  Refusal to register

  * ** 7\.  **  (1) Where any statutory instrument is transmitted or forwarded to the Clerk of the Privy Council for registration under this Act, the Clerk of the Privy Council may refuse to register the instrument if 

    * ( _ a _ ) he is not advised that the instrument was, before it was issued, made or established, determined by the Deputy Minister of Justice pursuant to section 4 to be one that would, if it were issued, made or established, not be a regulation; and 

    * ( _ b _ ) in his opinion, the instrument was, before it was issued, made or established, a proposed regulation to which subsection 3(1) applied and was not examined in accordance with subsection 3(2). 

  * ######  Determination by Deputy Minister of Justice 

(2) Where the Clerk of the Privy Council refuses to register any statutory
instrument for the reasons referred to in subsection (1), he shall forward a
copy of the instrument to the Deputy Minister of Justice who shall determine
whether or not it is a regulation.

  * 1970-71-72, c. 38, s. 7. 

##  POWER TO REVOKE REGULATIONS

######  Revocation of regulations by Governor in Council

** 8\.  **  No regulation is invalid by reason only that it was not examined in accordance with subsection 3(2), but where any statutory instrument that was issued, made or established without having been so examined 

  * ( _ a _ ) was, before it was issued, made or established, determined by the Deputy Minister of Justice pursuant to section 4 to be one that would, if it were issued, made or established, be a regulation, or 

  * ( _ b _ ) has, since its issue, making or establishment, been determined by the Deputy Minister of Justice pursuant to subsection 7(2) to be a regulation, 

the Governor in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Justice,
may, notwithstanding the provisions of the Act by or under the authority of
which the instrument was or purports to have been issued, made or established,
revoke the instrument in whole or in part and thereupon cause the regulation-
making authority or other authority by which it was issued, made or
established to be notified in writing of that action.

  * 1970-71-72, c. 38, s. 8. 

##  COMING INTO FORCE OF REGULATIONS

######  Coming into force

  * ** 9\.  **  (1) No regulation shall come into force on a day earlier than the day on which it is registered unless 

    * ( _ a _ ) it expressly states that it comes into force on a day earlier than that day and is registered within seven days after it is made, or 

    * ( _ b _ ) it is a regulation of a class that, pursuant to paragraph 20( _ b _ ), is exempted from the application of subsection 5(1), 

in which case it shall come into force, except as otherwise authorized or
provided by or under the Act pursuant to which it is made, on the day on which
it is made or on such later day as may be stated in the regulation.

  * ######  Where regulation comes into force before registration 

(2) Where a regulation is expressed to come into force on a day earlier than
the day on which it is registered, the regulation-making authority shall
advise the Clerk of the Privy Council in writing of the reasons why it is not
practical for the regulation to come into force on the day on which it is
registered.

  * 1970-71-72, c. 38, s. 9. 

##  PUBLICATION IN CANADA GAZETTE

######  Official gazette of Canada

  * ** 10\.  **  (1) The Queen’s Printer shall continue to publish the  [ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) as the official gazette of Canada. 

  * ######  Publication 

(2) The Governor in Council may determine the form and manner in which the  [
Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) , or any part of it, is published,
including publication by electronic means.

  * R.S., 1985, c. S-22, s. 10; 
  * 2000, c. 5, s. 58. 

######  Regulations to be published in  [ Canada Gazette
](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/)

  * ** 11\.  **  (1) Subject to any regulations made pursuant to paragraph 20( _ c _ ), every regulation shall be published in the  [ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) within twenty-three days after copies thereof are registered pursuant to section 6. 

  * ######  No conviction under unpublished regulation 

(2) No regulation is invalid by reason only that it was not published in the
[ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) , but no person shall be
convicted of an offence consisting of a contravention of any regulation that
at the time of the alleged contravention was not published in the  [ Canada
Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) unless

    * ( _ a _ ) the regulation was exempted from the application of subsection (1) pursuant to paragraph 20( _ c _ ), or the regulation expressly provides that it shall apply according to its terms before it is published in the  [ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) ; and 

    * ( _ b _ ) it is proved that at the date of the alleged contravention reasonable steps had been taken to bring the purport of the regulation to the notice of those persons likely to be affected by it. 

  * R.S., 1985, c. S-22, s. 11; 
  * R.S., 1985, c. 31 (4th Supp.), s. 103. 

######  Power to direct or authorize publication in  [ Canada Gazette
](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/)

** 12\.  **  Notwithstanding anything in this Act, the Governor in Council may by regulation direct that any statutory instrument or other document, or any class thereof, be published in the  [ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) and the Clerk of the Privy Council, where authorized by regulations made by the Governor in Council, may direct or authorize the publication in the  [ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) of any statutory instrument or other document, the publication of which, in his opinion, is in the public interest. 

  * 1970-71-72, c. 38, s. 12. 

##  DISTRIBUTION OF CANADA GAZETTE

######  Distribution of  [ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) to
Members of Parliament

  * ** 13\.  **  (1) A copy of each regulation that is published in the  [ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) shall be provided to each member of the Senate and House of Commons by delivering to each such member without charge a copy of the  [ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) in which the regulation is published. 

  * ######  Distribution of  [ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) to public 

(2) Copies of the  [ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) shall be
delivered without charge to such persons or classes of persons, in addition to
those described in subsection (1), as may be prescribed and may be sold to any
person on payment of the charge prescribed therefor.

  * 1970-71-72, c. 38, s. 13. 

##  INDEXES

######  Quarterly consolidated index of regulations

  * ** 14\.  **  (1) The Clerk of the Privy Council shall prepare and the Queen’s Printer shall publish quarterly a consolidated index of all regulations and amendments to regulations in force at any time after the end of the preceding calendar year, other than any regulation that is exempted from the application of subsection 11(1) as a regulation described in subparagraph 20( _ c _ )(iii). 

  * ######  Quarterly index of documents other than regulations 

(2) The Queen’s Printer shall prepare and publish a quarterly index of all
documents, other than regulations, that have been published in the  [ Canada
Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) during the three month period immediately
preceding the month in which the index is published.

  * 1970-71-72, c. 38, s. 14. 

##  REVISIONS AND CONSOLIDATIONS OF REGULATIONS

######  Power to request revision or consolidation

  * ** 15\.  **  (1) Where the Clerk of the Privy Council, after consultation with the Deputy Minister of Justice, is of the opinion that any particular regulations should be revised or consolidated, he may request the regulation-making authority or any person acting on behalf of such authority to prepare a revision or consolidation of those regulations. 

  * ######  Failure to comply with request 

(2) Where any authority or person referred to in subsection (1) fails to
comply within a reasonable time with a request made pursuant to that
subsection, the Governor in Council may, by order, direct that authority or
person to comply with the request within such period of time as he may specify
in the order.

  * 1970-71-72, c. 38, s. 22. 

##  JUDICIAL NOTICE OF STATUTORY INSTRUMENTS

######  Judicial notice

  * ** 16\.  **  (1) A statutory instrument that has been published in the  [ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) shall be judicially noticed. 

  * ######  Evidence 

(2) In addition to any other manner of proving the existence or contents of a
statutory instrument, evidence of the existence or contents of a statutory
instrument may be given by the production of a copy of the  [ Canada Gazette
](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) purporting to contain the text of the statutory
instrument.

  * ######  Deemed publication in  [ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/)

(3) For the purposes of this section,

    * ( _ a _ ) if a regulation is included in a copy of the Consolidated Regulations of Canada, 1978 purporting to be printed by the Queen’s Printer, that regulation is deemed to have been published in the  [ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) ; and 

    * ( _ b _ ) if a regulation is included in a copy of a revision of regulations purporting to be printed by the Queen’s Printer, that regulation is deemed to have been published in the  [ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) . 

  * R.S., 1985, c. S-22, s. 16; 
  * 2000, c. 5, s. 59. 

##  RIGHT OF ACCESS TO STATUTORY INSTRUMENTS

######  Inspection of statutory instruments

** 17\.  **  Subject to any other Act of Parliament and to any regulations made pursuant to paragraph 20( _ d _ ), any person may, on payment of the fee prescribed therefor, inspect 

  * ( _ a _ ) any statutory instrument that has been registered by the Clerk of the Privy Council, by attending at the office of the Clerk of the Privy Council or at such other place as may be designated by him and requesting that the statutory instrument be produced for inspection; or 

  * ( _ b _ ) any statutory instrument that has not been registered by the Clerk of the Privy Council, by attending at the head or central office of the authority that made the statutory instrument or at such other place as may be designated by that authority and requesting that the statutory instrument be produced for inspection. 

  * 1970-71-72, c. 38, s. 24. 

######  Copies of statutory instruments

** 18\.  **  Subject to any other Act of Parliament and to any regulations made pursuant to paragraph 20( _ d _ ), any person may, on payment of the fee prescribed therefor, obtain copies of 

  * ( _ a _ ) any statutory instrument that has been registered by the Clerk of the Privy Council, by writing to the Clerk of the Privy Council or by attending at the office of the Clerk of the Privy Council or at such other place as may be designated by him and requesting that a copy of the statutory instrument be provided; or 

  * ( _ b _ ) any statutory instrument that has not been registered by the Clerk of the Privy Council, by writing to the authority that made the statutory instrument or by attending at the head or central office of the authority or at such other place as may be designated by that authority and requesting that a copy of the statutory instrument be provided. 

  * 1970-71-72, c. 38, s. 25. 

##  SCRUTINY BY PARLIAMENT OF STATUTORY INSTRUMENTS

######  Statutory instruments referred to Scrutiny Committee

** 19\.  **  Every statutory instrument issued, made or established after December 31, 1971, other than an instrument the inspection of which and the obtaining of copies of which are precluded by any regulations made pursuant to paragraph 20( _ d _ ), shall stand permanently referred to any Committee of the House of Commons, of the Senate or of both Houses of Parliament that may be established for the purpose of reviewing and scrutinizing statutory instruments. 

  * 1970-71-72, c. 38, s. 26. 

##  REGULATIONS

######  Regulations

** 20\.  **  The Governor in Council may make regulations, 

  * ( _ a _ ) exempting any proposed regulation or class of regulation from the application of subsection 3(1) where that regulation or class of regulation would, if it were made, be exempted from the application of subsection 5(1) or 11(1) as a regulation or class of regulation described in subparagraph ( _ c _ )(ii); 

  * ( _ b _ ) exempting any class of regulation from the application of subsection 5(1) where, in the opinion of the Governor in Council, the registration thereof is not reasonably practicable due to the number of regulations of that class; 

  * ( _ c _ ) subject to any other Act of Parliament, exempting from the application of subsection 11(1) 

    * (i) any class of regulation that is exempted from the application of subsection 5(1), 

    * (ii) any regulation or class of regulation where the Governor in Council is satisfied that the regulation or class of regulation affects or is likely to affect only a limited number of persons and that reasonable steps have been or will be taken for the purpose of bringing the purport thereof to the notice of those persons affected or likely to be affected by it, or 

    * (iii) any regulation or class of regulation where the Governor in Council is satisfied that the regulation or class of regulation is such that publication could reasonably be expected to be injurious to 

      * (A) the conduct by the Government of Canada of federal-provincial affairs, or 

      * (B) the conduct of international affairs, the defence of Canada or any state allied or associated with Canada, as defined in subsection 15(2) of the  [ Access to Information Act ](/eng/acts/A-1) , or the detection, prevention or suppression of subversive or hostile activities, as defined in that subsection; 

  * ( _ d _ ) precluding the inspection of and the obtaining of copies of 

    * (i) any regulation or class of regulation that has been exempted from the application of subsection 11(1) as a regulation described in subparagraph ( _ c _ )(iii), 

    * (ii) any statutory instrument or class of statutory instrument other than a regulation, where the Governor in Council is satisfied that the inspection thereof and the obtaining of copies thereof could reasonably be expected to have the injurious effect described in clause ( _ c _ )(iii)(A) or (B), or 

    * (iii) any statutory instrument or class of statutory instrument the inspection of which or the making of copies of which is not otherwise provided for by law, in respect of which the Governor in Council is satisfied that the inspection or making of copies thereof as provided for by this Act would, if it were not precluded by any regulation made under this section, result or be likely to result in injustice or undue hardship to any person or body affected thereby or in serious and unwarranted detriment to any such person or body in the matter or conduct of his or its affairs; 

  * ( _ e _ ) prescribing the manner in which a regulation-making authority shall transmit copies of a regulation to the Clerk of the Privy Council; 

  * ( _ f _ ) prescribing the form and manner in which any statutory instrument shall be registered and the form and manner in which and the period of time for which records of any statutory instrument shall be maintained; 

  * ( _ g _ ) authorizing the Clerk of the Privy Council to direct or authorize publication in the  [ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) of any statutory instrument or other document, the publication of which, in the opinion of the Clerk of the Privy Council, is in the public interest; 

  * ( _ h _ ) respecting the form and manner in which the  [ Canada Gazette ](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) shall be published and prescribing the classes of documents that may be published therein; 

  * ( _ i _ ) requiring any regulation-making authority to forward to the Clerk of the Privy Council such information relating to any regulations made by it that are exempted from the application of subsection 11(1) as will enable the Clerk of the Privy Council to carry out the obligation imposed on him by subsection 14(1); 

  * ( _ j _ ) respecting the form and manner in which any index of statutory instruments or any consolidation of regulations shall be prepared and published; 

  * ( _ k _ ) prescribing the persons or classes of persons to whom copies of any consolidation of regulations may be delivered without charge and prescribing the charge that shall be paid by any other person for a copy of any such consolidation; 

  * ( _ l _ ) prescribing the fee that shall be paid by any person for any inspection of a statutory instrument or for obtaining a copy thereof or the manner in which any such fee shall be determined; and 

  * ( _ m _ ) prescribing any matter or thing that by this Act is to be prescribed. 

  * R.S., 1985, c. S-22, s. 20; 
  * 1993, c. 34, s. 114(F). 
  *[
  R.S.C.

 ]: Revised Statutes of Canada

