  * Skip to main content
  * Skip to secondary menu

## Site menu

![Government of Canada](/build/theme-gcwu-fegc/images/sig-eng.gif)

  * [Canada.ca](http://www.canada.ca/en/index.html)
  * [Services](http://www.canada.ca/en/services/index.html)
  * [Departments](http://www.canada.ca/en/gov/dept/index.html)
  * [Français](/scripts/changelanguage.asp)

![Symbol of the Government of Canada](/build/theme-gcwu-fegc/images/wmms.gif)

[Justice Laws Website](/eng)

## Search

Search website

## Site menu

  * ### Family Law

    * [Child Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/child-enfant/index.html)
    * [Divorce and Separation](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/divorce/index.html)
    * [Enforcing Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/enforce-execution/index.html)
    * [Family Justice Services](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/fjs-sjf/index.html)
    * [Custody and Parenting](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/parent/index.html)
    * [Spousal Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/spousal-epoux/index.html)
    * [Publications](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/pub.html)
    * [Provincial and Territorial Contacts](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/pt-tp/index.html)
    * [Contact Us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/contact/index.html)

[Family Law - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/index.html)

  * ### Criminal Justice

    * [Youth Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/yj-jj/index.html)
    * [Victims](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/victims-victimes/index.html)
    * [Family Violence](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/fv-vf/index.html)
    * [Criminal Conviction Review](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ccr-rc/index.html)
    * [Human Trafficking](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/tp/index.html)
    * [War Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/wc-cdg/index.html)
    * [National Security](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ns-sn/index.html)
    * [Extradition and Mutual Legal Assistance](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/emla-eej/index.html)

[Criminal Justice - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/index.html)

  * ### Funding

    * [Aboriginal Communities](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/acf-fca/index.html)
    * [Criminal Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/cj-jp/index.html)
    * [Family Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/famil/index.html)
    * [Justice System and Policy](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/jsp-sjp/index.html)
    * [Funding for Other Levels of Government](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/gov-gouv/index.html)
    * [Apply for Funding](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/form.html)

[Funding - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/index.html)

  * ### Canada's System of Justice

    * [About Canada's System of Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/just/)
    * [Bijuralism and Harmonization](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/harmonization/index.html)
    * [Canada's Court System](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/ccs-ajc/)
    * [Justice in Official Languages](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/franc/index.html)
    * [Legal Dualism and Bilingual Bisystemism](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/dualism-dualisme/index.html)

[Canada's System of Justice - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/)

  * ### Laws

    * [Constitutional Documents](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/Const/Const_index.html)
    * [Acts](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/)
    * [Regulations](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/regulations/)
    * [Search for an Act or Regulation ](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/Search/Search.aspx)

[Laws - More](/eng/)

## Breadcrumb trail

  1. [Home](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng)
  2. [Laws Website Home](/eng)
  3. [Consolidated Acts](/eng/acts/)
  4. [S.C. 1916, c. 24 -  Table of Contents](index.html)
  5. S.C. 1916, c. 24

# St. Peter’s Reserve Act (S.C. 1916, c. 24)

Full Document:  

  * [HTMLFull Document: St. Peter’s Reserve Act](FullText.html) | 
  * [XMLFull Document: St. Peter’s Reserve Act](/eng/XML/S-2.5.xml) [5 KB] | 
  * [PDFFull Document: St. Peter’s Reserve Act](/PDF/S-2.5.pdf) [22 KB]

Act current to 2015-05-25

# St. Peter’s Reserve Act

S.C. 1916, c. 24

Assented to 1916-05-18

An Act relating to the St. Peter’s Indian Reserve

WHEREAS an information on behalf of His Majesty was exhibited in the Exchequer
Court of Canada on the seventeenth day of October, 1914, claiming among other
things a declaration of the court that a release or surrender of the St.
Peter’s Indian Reserve, situate in the county of Selkirk in the province of
Manitoba, made on the twenty-fourth day of September, 1907, was invalid and
void, and that all patents heretofore issued for lands included in the said
Reserve and certain alleged sales of land in the said Reserve might be
declared void and of no effect; and whereas His Majesty has since consented to
confirm and make good certain of the patents and, subject to the terms and
conditions hereinafter set out, certain of the sales made: Therefore His
Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of Commons
of Canada, enacts as follows:—

###### Marginal note:Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as The St. Peter’s Reserve Act.

###### Marginal note:Patents confirmed

**2.** The patents of lands included in the said St. Peter’s Reserve issued by His Majesty and the sales of such lands made on behalf of His Majesty in the said Reserve are hereby confirmed and made good,—

  * ###### Marginal note:Lands held by Indians

(_a_) in cases where such lands were unsold and were held by the Indian
patentees on the first day of June, 1915; and

  * ###### Marginal note:Lands on which one dollar per acre has been paid

(_b_) in cases where the additional sum of one dollar for each acre of such
lands included in such patent or sale, together with interest at the rate of
five per centum per annum from the first day of June, 1915, until payment, has
been or is paid to His Majesty; and

  * ###### Marginal note:Lands where lien is given for payment of one dollar per acre

(_c_) in cases where the owner gives His Majesty a lien creating a first
charge upon the lands, subject only to taxes, for the sum of one dollar for
each acre of such lands included in such patent or sale, payable in five equal
annual instalments with interest at the rate of five per centum per annum from
the first day of June, 1915, the first of such instalments and interest to be
due and payable on the first day of June, 1916, such lien to be effected by an
endorsement of the lien or a caveat respecting same on the Certificate of
Title issued to the owner by the District Registrar of the proper Land Titles
Office: Provided that such lien may be paid in full at any time during the
said five years with interest as aforesaid to the date of payment.

Discharge of lien

The Certificate of the Deputy Superintendent General of Indian Affairs
certifying that a lien has been paid and satisfied shall be a valid discharge
of such lien.

###### Marginal note:Act retroactive

**3.** This Act shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of June, A.D., 1915.

  * St. Peter’s Reserve Act

Date modified:

    2015-06-04

## Secondary menu

### Laws

  * [Constitutional Documents](/eng/Const/Const_index.html)
  * [Consolidated Acts](/eng/acts/)
  * [Consolidated Regulations](/eng/regulations/)
  * [Annual Statutes](/eng/AnnualStatutes/index.html)
  * [Statutes Repeal Act: Reports and Repeals](/eng/Reports/)
  * [Miscellaneous Statute Law Amendment Program](/eng/MSLA/)

### Search

  * [Basic Search](/Search/Search.aspx)
  * [Advanced Search](/Search/Advanced.aspx)

### Resources

  * [Table of Public Statutes and Responsible Ministers](/eng/TablePublicStatutes/index.html)
  * [Table of Private Acts](/eng/TablePrivateActs/index.html)
  * [Consolidated Index of Statutory Instruments](/eng/IndexStatutoryInstruments)
  * [Related Resources](/eng/RelatedResources)

### Help

  * [Accessibility](/eng/Accessibility)
  * [FAQ](/eng/FAQ)
  * [General](/eng/GeneralHelp)
  * [Search Help](/eng/SearchHelp)
  * [PDF Help](/eng/PDFHelp)
  * [How to Create Stable Links](/eng/LinkingGuide)
  * [Printing](/eng/Printing)
  * [Glossary](/eng/Glossary)
  * [Important Note](/eng/ImportantNote)

## Footer

### Site footer

  * [Terms and conditions](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/terms-avis/index.html)
  * [Transparency](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/trans/index.html)

#### [Contact us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/index.html)

  * [Policy on Legal Assistance](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm4.html)
  * [Service on the Crown ](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm3.html)
  * [Guide to Canadian Legal Information](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm2.html)
  * [Help](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/help-aide.html)
  * [Helpful Links](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/link-lien.html)

#### [About us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/index.html)

  * [The Minister and Attorney General](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/mag-mpg.html)
  * [Organization](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/org.html)
  * [Acts and Regulations](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/trans/ar-lr/index.html)
  * [Careers and Articling ](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/recru/index.html)
  * [Reports and Publications](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/rp-pr/index.html)
  * [Sustainable Development](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/sd-dd/index.html)

#### [News](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/index.html)

  * [News Releases](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=1&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=26&crtr.mnthStrtVl=2&crtr.yrStrtVl=2008&crtr.dyndVl=31&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Backgrounders](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=930&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=26&crtr.mnthStrtVl=2&crtr.yrStrtVl=2008&crtr.dyndVl=27&crtr.mnthndVl=3&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Judicial Appointments](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/ja-nj.asp?tid=4)
  * [Speeches](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=970&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=21&crtr.mnthStrtVl=1&crtr.yrStrtVl=2002&crtr.dyndVl=21&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Media Notices](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=3&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=9&crtr.mnthStrtVl=1&crtr.yrStrtVl=2012&crtr.dyndVl=9&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Photo Gallery](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/photo/index.html)

#### [Stay connected](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/connect-branches.html)

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [RSS](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/rss.html)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/user/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [Public Consultations](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cons/index.html)

### Government of Canada footer

  * [Health](http://healthycanadians.gc.ca/index-eng.php)
  * [Travel](http://www.travel.gc.ca/index-eng.asp)
  * [Service Canada](http://www.servicecanada.gc.ca/eng/home.shtml)
  * [Jobs](http://www.jobbank.gc.ca/intro-eng.aspx)
  * [Economy](http://actionplan.gc.ca/eng/index.asp)
  * [Canada.ca](http://www.canada.ca/en/index.html)

![DCSIMG](//j1.justice.gc.ca/dcs7902nd5ihvq0jmbpwr0wnu_8j4x/njs.gif?dcsuri=/no
javascript&WT.js=No&WT.tv=9.4.0&dcssip=www.laws-lois.justice.gc.ca)

  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada

