  * Skip to main content
  * Skip to secondary menu

## Site menu

![Government of Canada](/build/theme-gcwu-fegc/images/sig-eng.gif)

  * [Canada.ca](http://www.canada.ca/en/index.html)
  * [Services](http://www.canada.ca/en/services/index.html)
  * [Departments](http://www.canada.ca/en/gov/dept/index.html)
  * [Français](/scripts/changelanguage.asp)

![Symbol of the Government of Canada](/build/theme-gcwu-fegc/images/wmms.gif)

[Justice Laws Website](/eng)

## Search

Search website

## Site menu

  * ### Family Law

    * [Child Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/child-enfant/index.html)
    * [Divorce and Separation](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/divorce/index.html)
    * [Enforcing Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/enforce-execution/index.html)
    * [Family Justice Services](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/fjs-sjf/index.html)
    * [Custody and Parenting](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/parent/index.html)
    * [Spousal Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/spousal-epoux/index.html)
    * [Publications](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/pub.html)
    * [Provincial and Territorial Contacts](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/pt-tp/index.html)
    * [Contact Us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/contact/index.html)

[Family Law - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/index.html)

  * ### Criminal Justice

    * [Youth Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/yj-jj/index.html)
    * [Victims](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/victims-victimes/index.html)
    * [Family Violence](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/fv-vf/index.html)
    * [Criminal Conviction Review](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ccr-rc/index.html)
    * [Human Trafficking](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/tp/index.html)
    * [War Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/wc-cdg/index.html)
    * [National Security](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ns-sn/index.html)
    * [Extradition and Mutual Legal Assistance](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/emla-eej/index.html)

[Criminal Justice - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/index.html)

  * ### Funding

    * [Aboriginal Communities](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/acf-fca/index.html)
    * [Criminal Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/cj-jp/index.html)
    * [Family Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/famil/index.html)
    * [Justice System and Policy](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/jsp-sjp/index.html)
    * [Funding for Other Levels of Government](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/gov-gouv/index.html)
    * [Apply for Funding](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/form.html)

[Funding - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/index.html)

  * ### Canada's System of Justice

    * [About Canada's System of Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/just/)
    * [Bijuralism and Harmonization](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/harmonization/index.html)
    * [Canada's Court System](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/ccs-ajc/)
    * [Justice in Official Languages](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/franc/index.html)
    * [Legal Dualism and Bilingual Bisystemism](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/dualism-dualisme/index.html)

[Canada's System of Justice - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/)

  * ### Laws

    * [Constitutional Documents](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/Const/Const_index.html)
    * [Acts](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/)
    * [Regulations](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/regulations/)
    * [Search for an Act or Regulation ](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/Search/Search.aspx)

[Laws - More](/eng/)

## Breadcrumb trail

  1. [Home](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng)
  2. [Laws Website Home](/eng)
  3. [Consolidated Acts](/eng/acts/)
  4. [S.C. 1987, c. 12 -  Table of Contents](index.html)
  5. S.C. 1987, c. 12

# Teleglobe Canada Reorganization and Divestiture Act (S.C. 1987, c. 12)

Full Document:  

  * [HTMLFull Document: Teleglobe Canada Reorganization and Divestiture Act](FullText.html) | 
  * [XMLFull Document: Teleglobe Canada Reorganization and Divestiture Act](/eng/XML/T-4.2.xml) [42 KB] | 
  * [PDFFull Document: Teleglobe Canada Reorganization and Divestiture Act](/PDF/T-4.2.pdf) [211 KB]

Act current to 2015-05-25

# Teleglobe Canada Reorganization and Divestiture Act

S.C. 1987, c. 12

Assented to 1987-04-01

An Act respecting the reorganization and divestiture of Teleglobe Canada

Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of
Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

# SHORT TITLE

###### Marginal note:Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Teleglobe Canada Reorganization and Divestiture Act](/eng/acts/T-4.2).

# INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION

###### Marginal note:Definitions

  * **2.** (1) In this Act,

“Commission”

« Conseil »

    

“Commission” means the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications
Commission;

“control”

« contrôle »

    

“control” means control in any manner that results in control in fact, whether
directly through the ownership of shares or indirectly through a trust, an
agreement, the ownership of any body corporate or otherwise;

“designated telecommunications common carrier”

    

“designated telecommunications common carrier”[Repealed, 1998, c. 8, s. 11]

“Minister”

« ministre »

    

“Minister” means the Minister of State (Privatization) or such other member of
the Queen’s Privy Council for Canada as is designated by the Governor in
Council as the Minister for the purposes of this Act;

“new corporation”

« nouvelle société »

    

“new corporation” means the corporation incorporated pursuant to section 4;

“person”

« personne »

    

“person” includes any individual, partnership, body corporate, unincorporated
organization, government or agency thereof, trustee, executor, administrator
or other legal representative;

“telecommunication”

    

“telecommunication”[Repealed, 1993, c. 38, s. 116]

“Teleglobe”

« Téléglobe »

    

“Teleglobe” means the corporation established by the Teleglobe Canada Act;

“voting share”

« action avec droit de vote »

    

“voting share”, in respect of a body corporate, means a share of the body
corporate carrying voting rights under all circumstances or under some
circumstances that have occurred and are continuing, and includes

    * (_a_) a security currently convertible into such a share, and

    * (_b_) currently exercisable options and rights to acquire such a share or such a convertible security.

  * ###### Marginal note:Same meaning

(2) Unless a contrary intention appears, words and expressions used in this
Act have the same meaning as in the [Canada Business Corporations
Act](/eng/acts/C-44).

  * ###### Marginal note:Operation of [Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44)

(3) In the event of any inconsistency between this Act and the [Canada
Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44), or anything issued, made or
established under that Act, this Act prevails.

  * ###### Marginal note:Operation of [Competition Act](/eng/acts/C-34)

(4) Nothing in or done under the authority of this Act affects the operation
of the [Competition Act](/eng/acts/C-34) in respect of the acquisition of any
interest in the new corporation.

  * 1987, c. 12, s. 2;
  * 1993, c. 38, s. 116;
  * 1994, c. 24, s. 34(F);
  * 1998, c. 8, s. 11.

###### Marginal note:Binding on the Crown

**3.** This Act is binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada or a province.

# REORGANIZATION

###### Marginal note:Articles of incorporation

  * **4.** (1) The Minister may submit to the Governor in Council for approval articles of incorporation under the [Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44) prepared in accordance with section 5.

  * ###### Marginal note:Submission to Director

(2) Within ten days after the Governor in Council approves articles of
incorporation submitted pursuant to subsection (1), Teleglobe shall send to
the Director the approved articles and such other documents as are required
under the [Canada Business Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-44) to effect the
incorporation.

  * ###### Marginal note:Issue of shares

(3) Subject to such terms and conditions as are approved by the Governor in
Council, Teleglobe shall subscribe for and be issued authorized shares of the
new corporation and, in consideration for securities of the new corporation
and the assumption by the new corporation of obligations and liabilities of
Teleglobe, Teleglobe shall transfer its business, works and undertaking to the
new corporation.

  * ###### Marginal note:Vesting of assets and liabilities in Teleglobe

(4) For the purpose of effecting the transfer and assumption referred to in
subsection (3),

    * (_a_) all property, rights and interests of Her Majesty in right of Canada held by Teleglobe on the coming into force of this subsection, and

    * (_b_) all obligations and liabilities of Her Majesty in right of Canada incurred by Teleglobe and existing on the coming into force of this subsection

are hereby vested in Teleglobe.

  * ###### Marginal note:Cost of property

(5) For the purposes of the [Income Tax Act](/eng/acts/I-3.3), the _Income Tax
Application Rules, 1971_ and the _Income Tax Regulations_,

    * (_a_) the property vested in Teleglobe by subsection (4) is deemed to have been owned by Teleglobe throughout the period during which the property was property of Her Majesty held by Teleglobe;

    * (_b_) the cost amount to Teleglobe of that property, other than any such property that is depreciable property, immediately after the vesting thereof in Teleglobe is deemed to be the cost amount thereof to Her Majesty immediately prior to the vesting; and

    * (_c_) the adjusted cost base and cost amount to Teleglobe of any such property that is depreciable property, immediately after the vesting thereof in Teleglobe, are deemed to be the amounts that may reasonably be regarded as the adjusted cost base and cost amount to Her Majesty in respect of the property immediately prior to the vesting.

  * ###### Marginal note:Provisions not applicable

(6) Section 45 and subsection 108(1) of the [Financial Administration
Act](/eng/acts/F-11) do not apply in respect of any property, rights,
interests, obligations or liabilities vested in Teleglobe by subsection (4)
and section 134 of that Act does not apply in respect of any securities issued
by the new corporation to Teleglobe.

  * ###### Marginal note:Exemption

(7) The Governor in Council may, by order, exempt any property, rights,
interests, obligations or liabilities of Her Majesty from the application of
subsection (4).

  * 1987, c. 12, s. 4;
  * 1994, c. 24, s. 34(F).

**5.** [Repealed, 1998, c. 8, s. 12]

**6.** [Repealed, 1998, c. 8, s. 13]

# CORPORATE AFFAIRS AND STATUS

**7.** [Repealed, 1998, c. 8, s. 14]

**8.** [Repealed, 1998, c. 8, s. 15]

###### Marginal note:Declaration of works for general advantage

**9.** The works of the new corporation are hereby declared to be works for the general advantage of Canada.

**10.** [Repealed, 1998, c. 8, s. 16]

###### Marginal note:Head office

**11.** The head office of the new corporation shall be in the Montreal Urban Community.

**12.** [Repealed, 1998, c. 8, s. 17]

# REGULATION

**13.** [Repealed, 1998, c. 8, s. 18]

**14\. to 16.** [Repealed, 1993, c. 38, s. 117]

**17.** [Repealed, 1998, c. 8, s. 19]

**18.** [Repealed, 1998, c. 8, s. 20]

# DIVESTITURE AND DISSOLUTION

###### Marginal note:Sale or other disposal of securities

  * **Footnote *19.** (1) The Minister may direct Teleglobe to sell or otherwise dispose of any or all securities of the new corporation held by Teleglobe on such terms and conditions as are approved by the Governor in Council.

  * ###### Marginal note:Compliance with direction

(2) On receiving a direction under subsection (1), Teleglobe is hereby
authorized to sell or dispose of the securities of the new corporation held by
Teleglobe in accordance with the direction and shall comply with the
direction.

  * ###### Marginal note:Acquisition of new corporation shares

(3) The Minister is hereby authorized to acquire shares of the new corporation
from Teleglobe on such terms and conditions as are approved by the Governor in
Council.

  * ###### Marginal note:Shares held in trust for Her Majesty

(4) Shares acquired pursuant to subsection (3) shall be held by the Minister
in trust for Her Majesty in right of Canada.

    * Return to footnote *[Note: Pursuant to paragraph 20(2)(_a_), the references to “Teleglobe” in this section shall be construed as including references to “TH(1987)”.]

###### Marginal note:Change of name

  * **20.** (1) The name of Teleglobe is hereby changed to TH(1987).

  * ###### Marginal note:Consequential changes

(2) On the coming into force of this section,

    * (_a_) the references to “Teleglobe” in sections 19 and 26 shall be construed as including references to “TH(1987)”.

    * (_b_) to (_d_) [Amendments to other Acts]

###### Marginal note:Dissolution

**21.** TH(1987) is hereby dissolved.

###### Marginal note:Ministerial powers

**22.** The Minister may do and perform all acts and things necessary for or incidental to the dissolution of TH(1987).

###### Marginal note:Adjustment to accounts of Canada

**23.** The Minister, after consultation with the President of the Treasury Board, shall cause such adjustments to be made in the accounts of Canada as are required as a result of any transaction authorized or required by this Act.

# SCHEDULE

**24.** [Repealed, 1998, c. 8, s. 21]

# TRANSITIONAL AND CONSEQUENTIAL

###### Marginal note:Pension rights

  * **25.** (1) In the manner and to the extent provided by the regulations made under subsection (3), the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/eng/acts/P-36), the [Supplementary Retirement Benefits Act](/eng/acts/S-24) and the regulations made under those Acts apply to a person who meets all of the following criteria:

    * (_a_) immediately prior to the coming into force of this section, the person was employed by Teleglobe or the new corporation and was a contributor under the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/eng/acts/P-36);

    * (_b_) the President of the Treasury Board has not made a payment to the new corporation pursuant to section 30 of the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/eng/acts/P-36) in respect of that person;

    * (_c_) the person has not received or opted to receive any annuity or other benefit under section 11 or 12 of the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/eng/acts/P-36) in respect of the pensionable service to that person’s credit under that Act immediately prior to the coming into force of this section; and

    * (_d_) the person elects, within one year after the coming into force of this section and in such form and manner as the President of the Treasury Board directs, to have the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/eng/acts/P-36), the [Supplementary Retirement Benefits Act](/eng/acts/S-24) and the regulations made under those Acts apply to that person in the manner and to the extent provided by the regulations made under subsection (3).

  * ###### Marginal note:Election irrevocable

(2) An election referred to in paragraph (1)(_d_) is irrevocable.

  * ###### Marginal note:Regulations

(3) The Governor in Council may, in relation to persons referred to in
paragraph (1)(_d_), make regulations

    * (_a_) respecting the manner in which and extent to which provisions, as amended, of the Acts and regulations mentioned in subsection (1) apply;

    * (_b_) adapting provisions of those Acts and regulations for the purposes of this section; and

    * (_c_) generally for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this section.

  * ###### Marginal note:Retroactive application of regulations

(4) Regulations made under subsection (3) may, if they so provide, be
retroactive and have effect with respect to any period before they are made.

###### Marginal note:Application of [Public Service Superannuation
Act](/eng/acts/P-36)

**Footnote *26.** Notwithstanding subsections 32(3) and (4) of the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/eng/acts/P-36), the Governor in Council may, by order,

  * (_a_) add the name of the new corporation to Part I of Schedule A to that Act;

  * (_b_) delete the name of the new corporation from Part I of Schedule A to that Act;

  * (_c_) add the name of the new corporation to Part III of Schedule A to that Act; and

  * (_d_) add the name of Teleglobe to Part III of Schedule A to that Act.

    * Return to footnote *[Note: Pursuant to paragraph 20(2)(a), the reference to “Teleglobe” in this section shall be construed as including a reference to “TH(1987)”.]

###### Marginal note:Transfer of undertaking

**27.** For greater certainty, the transfer of the business, works and undertaking of Teleglobe to the new corporation under section 4 is deemed to be,

  * (_a_) for the purposes of Part III of the [Canada Labour Code](/eng/acts/L-2), a transfer of a particular federal work or undertaking or business within the meaning of section 45 of that Act; and

  * (_b_) for the purposes of section 144 of that Act, a sale of a business within the meaning of that section.

###### Marginal note:Shares qualified

  * **28.** (1) For the purpose of qualifying the shares of the new corporation

    * (_a_) as an authorized investment under paragraph 63(1)(_m_) of the Canadian and British Insurance Companies Act, paragraph 60(1)(_e_) of the Loan Companies Act or paragraph 68(1)(_j_) of the Trust Companies Act,

    * (_b_) as a permitted investment under paragraph 1(_s_) of Schedule III to the [Pension Benefits Standards Regulations, 1985](/eng/regulations/SOR-87-19), and

    * (_c_) as assets that may be vested in trust in Canada under paragraph 1(_m_) of Schedule II to the Canadian and British Insurance Companies Act or paragraph 1(_m_) of Schedule I to the Foreign Insurance Companies Act,

the new corporation is deemed to have satisfied the requirements of those
paragraphs with respect to each of the five years immediately preceding the
privatization date.

  * ###### Marginal note:Debt obligations qualified

(2) For the purpose of qualifying the bonds, debentures or other evidences of
indebtedness of the new corporation

    * (_a_) as an authorized investment under subparagraph 63(1)(_j_)(i) of the Canadian and British Insurance Companies Act, subparagraph 60(1)(_c_)(i) of the Loan Companies Act or subparagraph 68(1)(_g_)(i) of the Trust Companies Act,

    * (_b_) as a permitted investment under paragraph 1(_m_) of Schedule III to the [Pension Benefits Standards Regulations, 1985](/eng/regulations/SOR-87-19), and

    * (_c_) as assets that may be vested in trust in Canada under subparagraph 1(_j_)(i) of Schedule II to the Canadian and British Insurance Companies Act or subparagraph 1(_j_)(i) of Schedule I to the Foreign Insurance Companies Act,

the new corporation is deemed

    * (_d_) to have satisfied the requirements of the paragraphs referred to in subsection (1) with respect to each of the five years immediately preceding the privatization date, and

    * (_e_) to have had amounts of paid-in capital, contributed surplus, retained earnings and total indebtedness at any relevant time prior to the privatization date identical to the corresponding amounts of Teleglobe at that time.

  * ###### Marginal note:Idem

(3) For the purpose of qualifying

    * (_a_) the bonds, debentures or other evidences of indebtedness of or guaranteed by the new corporation as an authorized investment under subparagraph 63(1)(_j_)(ii) of the Canadian and British Insurance Companies Act, subparagraph 60(1)(_c_)(ii) of the Loan Companies Act or subparagraph 68(1)(_g_)(ii) of the Trust Companies Act,

    * (_b_) the bonds, debentures or other evidences of indebtedness of or guaranteed by the new corporation as a permitted investment under subparagraph 1(_n_)(i) of Schedule III to the [Pension Benefits Standards Regulations, 1985](/eng/regulations/SOR-87-19), and

    * (_c_) the bonds, debentures or other evidences of indebtedness of the new corporation as assets that may be vested in trust in Canada under subparagraph 1(_j_)(ii) of Schedule II to the Canadian and British Insurance Companies Act or subparagraph 1(_j_)(ii) of Schedule I to the Foreign Insurance Companies Act,

the new corporation is deemed to have had earnings and annual interest
requirements for any relevant period prior to the privatization date identical
to the corresponding amounts of Teleglobe for that period.

  * ###### Marginal note:Definition of “privatization date”

(4) In this section, “privatization date” means the date of the first sale or
other disposal of shares of the new corporation by Teleglobe.

###### Marginal note:Filing of first tariff

  * **29.** (1) The new corporation may continue to charge any telegraph toll or telephone toll previously charged by Teleglobe that is in force at the time the new corporation commences business notwithstanding that a tariff of the tolls is not then filed with the Commission, but the new corporation shall file a tariff of those tolls with the Commission forthwith after it commences business.

  * ###### Marginal note:Tolls for 1987

(2) Subject to subsection (1), the new corporation shall file with the
Commission in accordance with section 320 of the Railway Act tariffs of the
telegraph tolls and telephone tolls of the new corporation in force from time
to time in 1987, but such tolls are deemed to comply with, and to have been
approved by the Commission for the purposes of, that section and section 321
of that Act and the Commission may not, for any period in that year, revise,
replace, disallow, suspend or postpone them or require the new corporation to
do so.

###### Marginal note:Direction respecting tolls in transitional period

  * **30.** (1) The Governor in Council shall, forthwith after the coming into force of this section, issue to the Commission a direction respecting the approval of the telegraph tolls and telephone tolls of the new corporation in force from time to time in the transitional period and the Commission shall give effect to the direction under and in accordance with the Act of Parliament that establishes the powers, duties and functions of the Commission in relation to the subject-matter of the direction.

  * ###### Marginal note:Tabling in Parliament

(2) The Minister of Communications shall cause a copy of the direction issued
under subsection (1) to be laid before each House of Parliament on any of the
first fifteen days on which that House is sitting after the direction is
issued.

  * ###### Marginal note:Definition of “transitional period”

(3) In this section, “transitional period” means the period from January 1,
1988 to December 31, 1991.

###### Marginal note:Contracts, etc., deemed approved

**31.** All contracts, agreements and arrangements entered into by Teleglobe and in force at the time the new corporation commences business that, but for this section, would be subject to the approval of the Commission before they have any force or effect shall be deemed to have been approved by the Commission and the Commission may not, for any period in 1987, revise, replace, disallow, suspend or postpone them or require the new corporation to do so.

###### Marginal note:Substitution

**32.** Wherever in any contract, agreement, deed, lease or other instrument Teleglobe is mentioned or referred to, there shall, in every case, unless the context otherwise requires, be substituted therefor a mention or reference to the new corporation.

###### Marginal note:Deemed approval

**33.** An agreement or arrangement referred to in section 29 of the [Telecommunications Act](/eng/acts/T-3.4) or a limitation of liability referred to in section 31 of that Act that was entered into or imposed, respectively, by the new corporation, or to which the new corporation is an assignee or a successor on the coming into force of this section, and that is in effect on the coming into force of this section, is deemed to have been approved under section 29 or 31 of that Act.

  * 1987, c. 12, s. 33;
  * 1998, c. 8, s. 22.

**34.** [Repeal of another Act]

# COMING INTO FORCE

###### Marginal note:Coming into force

**Footnote *35.** Subsection 4(4) and sections 20, 21, 25, 30 and 32 to 34 shall come into force on a day or days to fixed by proclamation.

  * Return to footnote *[Note: Subsection 4(4) and sections 30 and 32 in force April 2, 1987, _see_ SI/87-89; section 25 in force April 4, 1987, _see_ SI/87-90; section 34 in force July 29, 1993, _see_ SI/93-100; section 20 in force July 28, 1993, _see_ SI/93-147; sections 21 and 33 in force July 29, 1993, _see_ SI/93-148.]

# SCHEDULES I AND II

[Repealed, 1998, c. 8, s. 23]

  * Teleglobe Canada Reorganization and Divestiture Act
    * 1 - SHORT TITLE
    * 2 - INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION
    * 4 - REORGANIZATION
    * 7 - CORPORATE AFFAIRS AND STATUS
    * 13 - REGULATION
    * 19 - DIVESTITURE AND DISSOLUTION
    * 24 - SCHEDULE
    * 25 - TRANSITIONAL AND CONSEQUENTIAL
    * 35 - COMING INTO FORCE
    * SCHEDULES I AND II

# RELATED PROVISIONS

  * — 1995, c. 1, s. 62(3)

    *       * ###### Other references

 (3) Every reference to the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs or the
Minister of Industry, Science and Technology in any other Act of Parliament,
other than the Hazardous Materials Information Review Act, the Hazardous
Products Act and the Department of Consumer and Corporate Affairs Act, or in
any order, regulation or other instrument made under an Act of Parliament,
other than those three Acts, shall, unless the context otherwise requires, be
read as a reference to the Minister of Industry.

  * — 1995, c. 5, s. 25(2)

    *       * ###### Idem

 (2) Every reference to the Secretary of State for External Affairs in any
other Act of Parliament or in any order, regulation or other instrument made
under any Act of Parliament shall be read as a reference to the Minister of
Foreign Affairs, unless the context otherwise requires.

Date modified:

    2015-06-04

## Secondary menu

### Laws

  * [Constitutional Documents](/eng/Const/Const_index.html)
  * [Consolidated Acts](/eng/acts/)
  * [Consolidated Regulations](/eng/regulations/)
  * [Annual Statutes](/eng/AnnualStatutes/index.html)
  * [Statutes Repeal Act: Reports and Repeals](/eng/Reports/)
  * [Miscellaneous Statute Law Amendment Program](/eng/MSLA/)

### Search

  * [Basic Search](/Search/Search.aspx)
  * [Advanced Search](/Search/Advanced.aspx)

### Resources

  * [Table of Public Statutes and Responsible Ministers](/eng/TablePublicStatutes/index.html)
  * [Table of Private Acts](/eng/TablePrivateActs/index.html)
  * [Consolidated Index of Statutory Instruments](/eng/IndexStatutoryInstruments)
  * [Related Resources](/eng/RelatedResources)

### Help

  * [Accessibility](/eng/Accessibility)
  * [FAQ](/eng/FAQ)
  * [General](/eng/GeneralHelp)
  * [Search Help](/eng/SearchHelp)
  * [PDF Help](/eng/PDFHelp)
  * [How to Create Stable Links](/eng/LinkingGuide)
  * [Printing](/eng/Printing)
  * [Glossary](/eng/Glossary)
  * [Important Note](/eng/ImportantNote)

## Footer

### Site footer

  * [Terms and conditions](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/terms-avis/index.html)
  * [Transparency](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/trans/index.html)

#### [Contact us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/index.html)

  * [Policy on Legal Assistance](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm4.html)
  * [Service on the Crown ](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm3.html)
  * [Guide to Canadian Legal Information](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm2.html)
  * [Help](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/help-aide.html)
  * [Helpful Links](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/link-lien.html)

#### [About us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/index.html)

  * [The Minister and Attorney General](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/mag-mpg.html)
  * [Organization](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/org.html)
  * [Acts and Regulations](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/trans/ar-lr/index.html)
  * [Careers and Articling ](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/recru/index.html)
  * [Reports and Publications](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/rp-pr/index.html)
  * [Sustainable Development](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/sd-dd/index.html)

#### [News](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/index.html)

  * [News Releases](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=1&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=26&crtr.mnthStrtVl=2&crtr.yrStrtVl=2008&crtr.dyndVl=31&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Backgrounders](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=930&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=26&crtr.mnthStrtVl=2&crtr.yrStrtVl=2008&crtr.dyndVl=27&crtr.mnthndVl=3&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Judicial Appointments](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/ja-nj.asp?tid=4)
  * [Speeches](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=970&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=21&crtr.mnthStrtVl=1&crtr.yrStrtVl=2002&crtr.dyndVl=21&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Media Notices](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=3&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=9&crtr.mnthStrtVl=1&crtr.yrStrtVl=2012&crtr.dyndVl=9&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Photo Gallery](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/photo/index.html)

#### [Stay connected](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/connect-branches.html)

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [RSS](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/rss.html)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/user/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [Public Consultations](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cons/index.html)

### Government of Canada footer

  * [Health](http://healthycanadians.gc.ca/index-eng.php)
  * [Travel](http://www.travel.gc.ca/index-eng.asp)
  * [Service Canada](http://www.servicecanada.gc.ca/eng/home.shtml)
  * [Jobs](http://www.jobbank.gc.ca/intro-eng.aspx)
  * [Economy](http://actionplan.gc.ca/eng/index.asp)
  * [Canada.ca](http://www.canada.ca/en/index.html)

![DCSIMG](//j1.justice.gc.ca/dcs7902nd5ihvq0jmbpwr0wnu_8j4x/njs.gif?dcsuri=/no
javascript&WT.js=No&WT.tv=9.4.0&dcssip=www.laws-lois.justice.gc.ca)

  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada

