  * Skip to main content
  * Skip to secondary menu

## Site menu

![Government of Canada](/build/theme-gcwu-fegc/images/sig-eng.gif)

  * [Canada.ca](http://www.canada.ca/en/index.html)
  * [Services](http://www.canada.ca/en/services/index.html)
  * [Departments](http://www.canada.ca/en/gov/dept/index.html)
  * [Français](/scripts/changelanguage.asp)

![Symbol of the Government of Canada](/build/theme-gcwu-fegc/images/wmms.gif)

[Justice Laws Website](/eng)

## Search

Search website

## Site menu

  * ### Family Law

    * [Child Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/child-enfant/index.html)
    * [Divorce and Separation](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/divorce/index.html)
    * [Enforcing Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/enforce-execution/index.html)
    * [Family Justice Services](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/fjs-sjf/index.html)
    * [Custody and Parenting](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/parent/index.html)
    * [Spousal Support](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/spousal-epoux/index.html)
    * [Publications](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/pub.html)
    * [Provincial and Territorial Contacts](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/pt-tp/index.html)
    * [Contact Us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/contact/index.html)

[Family Law - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fl-df/index.html)

  * ### Criminal Justice

    * [Youth Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/yj-jj/index.html)
    * [Victims](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/victims-victimes/index.html)
    * [Family Violence](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/fv-vf/index.html)
    * [Criminal Conviction Review](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ccr-rc/index.html)
    * [Human Trafficking](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/tp/index.html)
    * [War Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/wc-cdg/index.html)
    * [National Security](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ns-sn/index.html)
    * [Extradition and Mutual Legal Assistance](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/emla-eej/index.html)

[Criminal Justice - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/index.html)

  * ### Funding

    * [Aboriginal Communities](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/acf-fca/index.html)
    * [Criminal Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/cj-jp/index.html)
    * [Family Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/famil/index.html)
    * [Justice System and Policy](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/jsp-sjp/index.html)
    * [Funding for Other Levels of Government](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/gov-gouv/index.html)
    * [Apply for Funding](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/form.html)

[Funding - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/fund-fina/index.html)

  * ### Canada's System of Justice

    * [About Canada's System of Justice](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/just/)
    * [Bijuralism and Harmonization](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/harmonization/index.html)
    * [Canada's Court System](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/ccs-ajc/)
    * [Justice in Official Languages](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/franc/index.html)
    * [Legal Dualism and Bilingual Bisystemism](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/dualism-dualisme/index.html)

[Canada's System of Justice - More](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/csj-sjc/)

  * ### Laws

    * [Constitutional Documents](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/Const/Const_index.html)
    * [Acts](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/)
    * [Regulations](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/regulations/)
    * [Search for an Act or Regulation ](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/Search/Search.aspx)

[Laws - More](/eng/)

## Breadcrumb trail

  1. [Home](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng)
  2. [Laws Website Home](/eng)
  3. [Consolidated Acts](/eng/acts/)
  4. [S.C. 1994, c. 34 -  Table of Contents](../index.html)
  5. [ Previous versions](../PITIndex.html)
  6. S.C. 1994, c. 34

[This Web page has been archived on the Web.](/eng/ArchiveNote)

Version of document from 2002-12-31 to 2003-03-31:

# Yukon First Nations Land Claims Settlement Act

S.C. 1994, c. 34

Assented to 1994-07-07

An Act to approve, give effect to and declare valid land claims agreements
entered into between Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, the Government
of the Yukon Territory and certain first nations in the Yukon Territory, to
provide for approving, giving effect to and declaring valid other land claims
agreements entered into after this Act comes into force, and to make
consequential amendments to other Acts

###### Preamble

WHEREAS representatives of Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, the
Government of the Yukon Territory and the Council for Yukon Indians signed the
Umbrella Final Agreement on May 29, 1993, the provisions of which are intended
to be incorporated into final agreements for the settlement of land claims of
first nations in the Yukon Territory;

WHEREAS the Champagne and Aishihik First Nations, the First Nation of Nacho
Nyak Dun, the Teslin Tlingit Council and the Vuntut Gwitchin First Nation have
each entered into a final agreement with Her Majesty and the Government of the
Yukon Territory, incorporating the provisions of the Umbrella Final Agreement
and including provisions specific to each first nation;

WHEREAS agreements may be entered into with respect to aboriginal claims to
lands in British Columbia and the Northwest Territories by persons enrolled
under final agreements as well as aboriginal claims to lands in the Yukon
Territory by certain people outside the Yukon Territory;

AND WHEREAS the Government of Canada has undertaken to recommend to Parliament
the enactment of legislation for approving, giving effect to and declaring
valid final agreements and transboundary agreements;

NOW, THEREFORE, Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate
and House of Commons of Canada, enacts as follows:

# SHORT TITLE

###### Marginal note:Short title

**1.** This Act may be cited as the [Yukon First Nations Land Claims Settlement Act](/eng/acts/Y-2.3).

# INTERPRETATION

###### Marginal note:Definitions

**2.** In this Act,

“final agreement”

« accord définitif »

    

“final agreement” means a land claims agreement for a first nation that
includes provisions specific to the first nation and incorporates the
provisions of the Umbrella Final Agreement, and includes any amendments made
to it from time to time in accordance with its provisions;

“first nation”

« première nation »

    

“first nation” means a first nation named in the schedule;

“settlement land”

« terres désignées »

    

“settlement land” means land identified in a first nation’s final agreement as
settlement land of the first nation;

“transboundary agreement”

« accord transfrontalier »

    

“transboundary agreement” means a transboundary agreement as defined in final
agreements, and includes any amendments made to it from time to time in
accordance with its provisions;

“Umbrella Final Agreement”

« accord-cadre »

    

“Umbrella Final Agreement” means the Umbrella Final Agreement signed on May
29, 1993 by representatives of the Council for Yukon Indians, Her Majesty the
Queen in right of Canada and the Government of the Yukon Territory, and
includes any amendments made to it from time to time in accordance with its
provisions.

# HER MAJESTY

###### Marginal note:Binding on Her Majesty

**3.** This Act is binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada or a province.

# LAND CLAIMS AGREEMENTS

###### Marginal note:Four final agreements given effect

**4.** Each of the following final agreements entered into between Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, the Government of the Yukon Territory and the respective first nation, signed on May 29, 1993, is hereby approved, given effect and declared valid:

  * (_a_) the Champagne and Aishihik First Nations Final Agreement;

  * (_b_) the First Nation of Nacho Nyak Dun Final Agreement;

  * (_c_) the Teslin Tlingit Council Final Agreement; and

  * (_d_) the Vuntut Gwitchin First Nation Final Agreement.

###### Marginal note:Future agreements

  * **5.** (1) The Governor in Council may, by order, approve, give effect to and declare valid any final agreement or transboundary agreement entered into after this Act comes into force.

  * ###### Marginal note:Tabling

(2) An order approving a final agreement or transboundary agreement shall be
laid before the House of Commons on any of the first thirty days on which that
House is sitting after the order is made.

# EFFECT OF AGREEMENTS

###### Marginal note:[Constitution Act, 1982](/eng/Const/)

  * **6.** (1) A final agreement or transboundary agreement that is in effect is a land claims agreement within the meaning of section 35 of the [Constitution Act, 1982](/eng/Const/).

  * ###### Marginal note:Third parties

(2) For greater certainty, such an agreement is binding on all persons and
bodies that are not parties to it.

###### Marginal note:Title to lands

**7.** For greater certainty, a first nation for which a final agreement is in effect has the rights, title, obligations and liabilities in respect of settlement land provided for in the final agreement.

###### Marginal note:Rights and duties

**8.** For greater certainty, any person or body has the powers, rights, privileges and benefits conferred on the person or body by a final agreement or transboundary agreement that is in effect and shall perform the duties and is subject to the liabilities imposed on the person or body by the agreement.

# BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COUNCILS

###### Marginal note:Bodies constituted

  * **9.** (1) For the purposes of carrying out their objectives, the Yukon Land Use Planning Council, the Yukon Heritage Resources Board, the Yukon Geographical Place Names Board, the Fish and Wildlife Management Board and its salmon subcommittee, and the Dispute Resolution Board, established under final agreements, each have the capacity, rights, powers and privileges of a natural person.

  * ###### Marginal note:Renewable resources councils

(2) For the purposes of carrying out its objectives, a renewable resources
council established under a final agreement that is in effect has the
capacity, rights, powers and privileges of a natural person.

  * ###### Marginal note:Kluane National Park Management Board

(3) For the purposes of carrying out its objectives, the Kluane National Park
Management Board established under the Champagne and Aishihik First Nations
Final Agreement has the capacity, rights, powers and privileges of a natural
person.

  * ###### Marginal note:Other bodies

(4) For the purposes of carrying out its objectives, any body established
under a final agreement or transboundary agreement entered into after this Act
comes into force has, to the extent provided by the agreement, the capacity,
rights, powers and privileges of a natural person from the day the agreement
is given effect.

###### Marginal note:Settlement corporations

**10.** A charter may be granted under subsection 154(1) of the [Canada Corporations Act](/eng/acts/C-1.8) establishing a settlement corporation, referred to in a final agreement that is in effect, to carry on, with pecuniary gain to its members, the activities permitted by the agreement.

###### Marginal note:Status of Enrollment Commission

  * **11.** (1) For the purposes of carrying out its objectives, the Enrollment Commission established on July 1, 1989 has the capacity, rights, powers and privileges of a natural person.

  * ###### Marginal note:Idem

(2) The Enrollment Commission is deemed to have had, since it was established,
the jurisdiction, power and authority provided by final agreements, other than
the powers referred to in subsection (3).

  * ###### Marginal note:Power to compel evidence

(3) The Enrollment Commission has the powers provided in the Public Inquiries
Act (Yukon), as amended from time to time, to direct and compel the production
of documents and the attendance of witnesses, other than a minister of the
Crown in right of Canada or a member of the Executive Council, as defined in
the [Interpretation Act](/eng/acts/I-21) (Yukon), as amended from time to
time.

  * ###### Marginal note:Enforcement

(4) An order or decision of the Enrollment Commission made before or after
this Act comes into force may be filed in the Supreme Court of the Yukon
Territory, and when so filed may be enforced as an order of that Court.

  * ###### Marginal note:Enrollment committees

(5) An enrollment committee established by a first nation has the powers
required to carry out its responsibilities as referred to in final agreements.

# APPLICATION OF LAWS AND AGREEMENTS

###### Marginal note:[Indian Act](/eng/acts/I-5)

**12.** When a final agreement is given effect, the [Indian Act](/eng/acts/I-5) ceases to apply in respect of any reserve, within the meaning of that Act, that is identified in the agreement as settlement land.

###### Marginal note:Laws of general application

  * **13.** (1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), federal and territorial laws, including the [Yukon First Nations Self-Government Act](/eng/acts/Y-2.6), apply to a first nation for which a final agreement is in effect, to persons enrolled under such an agreement and in respect of settlement land of the first nation.

  * ###### Marginal note:Conflict of agreements with laws

(2) In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between a final agreement or
transboundary agreement that is in effect and any federal or territorial law,
including this Act, the agreement prevails to the extent of the conflict or
inconsistency.

  * ###### Marginal note:Conflict of Act with other Acts

(3) In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between this Act and any other
enactment, this Act prevails to the extent of the conflict or inconsistency.

  * ###### Marginal note:Conflict within final agreement

(4) In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between provisions of the
Umbrella Final Agreement incorporated in a final agreement that is in effect
and provisions of the final agreement that are specific to the first nation,
the provisions of the Umbrella Final Agreement prevail to the extent of the
conflict or inconsistency.

  * ###### Marginal note:Conflict with I.F.A.

(5) In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between the Inuvialuit Final
Agreement, as it read on March 31, 1993, and a final agreement or
transboundary agreement that is in effect, the Inuvialuit Final Agreement
prevails to the extent of the conflict or inconsistency.

  * ###### Marginal note:Interpretation of this Act

(6) Where there is doubt as to the meaning of any provision of this Act, a
final agreement or transboundary agreement that is in effect may be examined
as an aid to interpretation.

# APPROPRIATION

###### Marginal note:Payments out of C.R.F.

**14.** There shall be paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund the sums that are required to meet the monetary obligations of Canada under chapter 19 of each final agreement that is given effect by section 4, and under the corresponding provisions of each final agreement that is given effect under section 5.

# DEPOSIT

###### Marginal note:Agreements and amendments

**15.** The Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development shall cause a certified copy of each final agreement and transboundary agreement that is given effect by or under this Act, and of any amendments made to such an agreement, to be deposited in

  * (_a_) the National Archives of Canada;

  * (_b_) the library of the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development situated in the National Capital Region;

  * (_c_) such regional offices of the Government of Canada situated in the Yukon Territory as the Minister considers advisable; and

  * (_d_) such other places as the Minister considers advisable.

# CONSULTATION

###### Marginal note:Consultation

**16.** Consultations referred to in clause 20.6.3 of a final agreement in connection with measures necessary for the purpose of giving effect to clause 20.6.1 or 20.6.2 of the agreement shall be carried out in the manner provided by the agreement.

# POWERS OF GOVERNOR IN COUNCIL

###### Marginal note:Orders and regulations

**17.** The Governor in Council may make such orders and regulations as are necessary for the purpose of carrying out any provision of a final agreement or transboundary agreement that is in effect.

# CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS

**18\. to 20.** [Amendments]

# COMING INTO FORCE

###### Marginal note:Coming into force

  * **Footnote *21.** (1) Subject to subsection (2), this Act comes into force on a day to be fixed by order of the Governor in Council.

  * ###### Marginal note:Idem

(2) Subsections 20(1), (2) and (4) come into force on the first day on which
the final agreements of all first nations have been given effect.

    * Return to footnote *[Note: Act, except subsections 20(1), (2) and (4), in force February 14, 1995, _see_ SI/95-19.]

# SCHEDULE(Section 2)

## FIRST NATIONS

  * Carcross/Tagish First Nation

  * Champagne and Aishihik First Nations

  * Kluane First Nation

  * Kwanlin Dun First Nation

  * Liard First Nation

  * Little Salmon/Carmacks First Nation

  * First Nation of Nacho Nyak Dun

  * Ross River Dena Council

  * Selkirk First Nation

  * Ta’an Kwach’an Council

  * Teslin Tlingit Council

  * Tr’ondëk Hwëch’in

  * Vuntut Gwitchin First Nation

  * White River First Nation

  * 1994, c. 34, Sch.;
  * 1999, c. 31, ss. 224, 225.

  * Yukon First Nations Land Claims Settlement Act
    * 1 - SHORT TITLE
    * 2 - INTERPRETATION
    * 3 - HER MAJESTY
    * 4 - LAND CLAIMS AGREEMENTS
    * 6 - EFFECT OF AGREEMENTS
    * 9 - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COUNCILS
    * 12 - APPLICATION OF LAWS AND AGREEMENTS
    * 14 - APPROPRIATION
    * 15 - DEPOSIT
    * 16 - CONSULTATION
    * 17 - POWERS OF GOVERNOR IN COUNCIL
    * 18\. to 20 - CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS
    * 21 - COMING INTO FORCE
    * SCHEDULE

Date modified:

    2015-06-04

## Secondary menu

### Laws

  * [Constitutional Documents](/eng/Const/Const_index.html)
  * [Consolidated Acts](/eng/acts/)
  * [Consolidated Regulations](/eng/regulations/)
  * [Annual Statutes](/eng/AnnualStatutes/index.html)
  * [Statutes Repeal Act: Reports and Repeals](/eng/Reports/)
  * [Miscellaneous Statute Law Amendment Program](/eng/MSLA/)

### Search

  * [Basic Search](/Search/Search.aspx)
  * [Advanced Search](/Search/Advanced.aspx)

### Resources

  * [Table of Public Statutes and Responsible Ministers](/eng/TablePublicStatutes/index.html)
  * [Table of Private Acts](/eng/TablePrivateActs/index.html)
  * [Consolidated Index of Statutory Instruments](/eng/IndexStatutoryInstruments)
  * [Related Resources](/eng/RelatedResources)

### Help

  * [Accessibility](/eng/Accessibility)
  * [FAQ](/eng/FAQ)
  * [General](/eng/GeneralHelp)
  * [Search Help](/eng/SearchHelp)
  * [PDF Help](/eng/PDFHelp)
  * [How to Create Stable Links](/eng/LinkingGuide)
  * [Printing](/eng/Printing)
  * [Glossary](/eng/Glossary)
  * [Important Note](/eng/ImportantNote)

## Footer

### Site footer

  * [Terms and conditions](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/terms-avis/index.html)
  * [Transparency](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/trans/index.html)

#### [Contact us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/index.html)

  * [Policy on Legal Assistance](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm4.html)
  * [Service on the Crown ](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm3.html)
  * [Guide to Canadian Legal Information](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/Comm2.html)
  * [Help](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/help-aide.html)
  * [Helpful Links](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/contact/link-lien.html)

#### [About us](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/index.html)

  * [The Minister and Attorney General](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/mag-mpg.html)
  * [Organization](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/org.html)
  * [Acts and Regulations](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/trans/ar-lr/index.html)
  * [Careers and Articling ](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/recru/index.html)
  * [Reports and Publications](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/rp-pr/index.html)
  * [Sustainable Development](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/abt-apd/sd-dd/index.html)

#### [News](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/index.html)

  * [News Releases](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=1&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=26&crtr.mnthStrtVl=2&crtr.yrStrtVl=2008&crtr.dyndVl=31&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Backgrounders](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=930&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=26&crtr.mnthStrtVl=2&crtr.yrStrtVl=2008&crtr.dyndVl=27&crtr.mnthndVl=3&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Judicial Appointments](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/ja-nj.asp?tid=4)
  * [Speeches](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=970&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=21&crtr.mnthStrtVl=1&crtr.yrStrtVl=2002&crtr.dyndVl=21&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Media Notices](http://news.gc.ca/web/dsptch-dstrbr-en.do?mthd=advSrch&crtr.dpt1D=6681&crtr.thm1D=&crtr.tp1D=3&crtr.sj1D=&crtr.lc1D=&crtr.aud1D=&crtr.kw=&crtr.dyStrtVl=9&crtr.mnthStrtVl=1&crtr.yrStrtVl=2012&crtr.dyndVl=9&crtr.mnthndVl=12&crtr.yrndVl=2015)
  * [Photo Gallery](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/photo/index.html)

#### [Stay connected](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/connect-branches.html)

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [RSS](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/news-nouv/rss.html)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/user/JusticeCanadaEn)
  * [Public Consultations](http://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cons/index.html)

### Government of Canada footer

  * [Health](http://healthycanadians.gc.ca/index-eng.php)
  * [Travel](http://www.travel.gc.ca/index-eng.asp)
  * [Service Canada](http://www.servicecanada.gc.ca/eng/home.shtml)
  * [Jobs](http://www.jobbank.gc.ca/intro-eng.aspx)
  * [Economy](http://actionplan.gc.ca/eng/index.asp)
  * [Canada.ca](http://www.canada.ca/en/index.html)

![DCSIMG](//j1.justice.gc.ca/dcs7902nd5ihvq0jmbpwr0wnu_8j4x/njs.gif?dcsuri=/no
javascript&WT.js=No&WT.tv=9.4.0&dcssip=www.laws-lois.justice.gc.ca)

  *[S.C.]: Statutes of Canada

